Link: https://coursecat.isu.edu/graduate/scienceengineering/civilandenvironmentalengineering/bsmsce/
Accelerated Degree BS/MS in Civil Engineering
Department website:
https://www.isu.edu/cee/
The Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering offers an accelerated BS/MS program for its most talented undergraduates in the BS program. Graduates will receive separate bachelor’s and master’s degrees, as noted on their transcripts. This program allows students to complete the traditional bachelor’s degree in 4 years, but by enrolling in targeted graduate courses in their senior year that count towards both the bachelor’s and master’s degrees, the timeline to earn the master’s is reduced from two years to one. The overall cost to earn the master’s degree is thus reduced, as well. Students enrolled in accelerated programs who decide not to pursue the master’s degree after earning the bachelor’s degree are not required to do so, and the bachelor’s degree will be awarded as soon as the student has fulfilled all bachelor’s degree requirements.
Admission Requirements
Information about admission into the
accelerated program can be found in the undergraduate catalog
. Student will apply to the department, usually two semesters prior to bachelor’s degree graduation, to enter the accelerated program.
Please note: the semester before completing the bachelor’s degree, students must also apply for formal admission into
Idaho State University’s Graduate School
. Standard admission criteria must be met in order to be formally admitted into the Graduate School and is
available here
.
Requirements for the GRE are as outlined in the department criteria found here
.
General Requirements
The total number of credits for this program is 33. Within the last two (2) semesters of the 4+1 program, students must take three (3) 5000-level (graduate) courses as a senior that will count towards both the undergraduate and graduate degrees. The student must earn a B or better for those courses to count towards the graduate degree. From the remaining 24 credits needed for the proposed accelerated MS program, one three-credit course must be CE or ENVE 6660 Special Project. In consultation with a faculty advisor, a project will be selected for CE/ENVE 6660. The Special Project course requirements include writing a report and presenting the project and results to an MS committee.
The benefit of the accelerated approach is that graduate courses can count toward both degrees. Please reference the graduate catalog’s program description for the list of courses required to earn the
Master’s in Civil Engineering
degree. It is also suggested that you consult with the faculty advisor that you would like to work with.
For more information on this program, including admission into the accelerated program and undergraduate degree requirements related to this program, please reference the
accelerated program description in the undergraduate catalog
.