Link: https://coursecat.isu.edu/graduate/artsandletters/anthropology/
Anthropology
Chair and Professor: Reedy
Associate Professors: Blatt, Dudgeon, Speer
Assistant Professors: Ebel, Mink, Redd
Lecturer:  Thomas
Native Language Instructor: Gould
Affiliated Researcher: Hansen
Program Description
Type
Degree
Master of Arts in Anthropology, M.A.
Degree
M.A.
Master of Science in Anthropology, M.S.
Degree
M.S.
Medical Anthropology Certificate
Certificate
Certificate
Forensic Sciences Certificate
Certificate
Certificate
Mission
The mission of the Department of Anthropology is to research and teach about global human diversity and distinctiveness from the distant past to the present. Anthropology applies practical tools and theoretical concepts to understanding many aspects of the human condition. This includes culture, contemporary society, the evolution and biology of humans, and language. Anthropology provides cross-cultural, environmental, and global perspectives on past and present human behavior. Our mission is to apply anthropological concepts to the resolution of important social, cultural, and environmental problems of our times. The Department of Anthropology offers graduate students the Master of Arts (M.A.) or Master of Science (M.S.) degrees with specialization in applied anthropology, archaeological science, ecological anthropology, forensics, language preservation, medical anthropology, and oral history.
Goals
Students who have completed a graduate degree in Anthropology at Idaho State University should be able to:
1.   Comprehend and critique core anthropological theories and debates within the Cultural, Biological, Archaeological, and Linguistic sub-disciplines.
2.   Evaluate the appropriate application of a variety of Anthropological methods to sub-discipline specific research questions.
3.   Articulate the relationship of humans to physical, cultural, and metaphysical environments.
4.   Design and carry out research and application of methods and theories at a Master's level.
Measurable Outcomes
The Thesis, Professional Paper, or Applied Project should show the following competencies based on the
learning objectives:
Write a proposal for the option that you choose. Working with your advisor, outline how you will complete your chosen option. Depending on the option you choose your proposal may include a library-based review of the topic, a description of your proposed research, or a description of an applied application of anthropological theory to a contemporary social issue.
Perform quantitative and/or qualitative analysis of data appropriate to the chosen sub-discipline if your option includes gathering data.
Competently conceive, conduct, and write research and/or applications of anthropology at a level suitable for publication.
Admission Requirements
Prospective students must apply to the Graduate School and meet all criteria for admission. In addition, applicants must provide:
1. A letter of application, including areas of interest and professional goals, identifying an academic advisor in the Department of Anthropology;
2. A curriculum vitae;
3. Three letters of recommendation;
4. Official undergraduate transcripts and transcripts of any previous post-graduate coursework;
5. An undergraduate degree in anthropology is not required for acceptance into the program; however, students without upper division coursework in sociocultural anthropology, archaeology, and human origins equivalent to ANTH 5501, ANTH 5503, ANTH 5530, and an upper division linguistic anthropology course may will be required to take these courses or approved readings courses in consultation with their adviser before enrolling in content-respective graduate seminars.
Students admitted to the graduate program are considered Classified students. Some students may be admitted as Classified with performance requirements. These students must fulfill requirements indicated with their admission and are not eligible for a graduate teaching assistantship until they achieve Classified status.
Anthropology Courses