Link: https://www.isu.edu/hpss/graduate-programs/athleticadmin/
Athletic Administration
As an athletic administrator you will develop athletic programs that will prepare future athletics to lead, excel, and make a difference in their sport.
Program Information
The
Master of Arts in
Athletic Administration Program
will help you elevate your career in athletic leadership. Our dedicated professors will provide you with an in-depth understanding of the management and business aspects of collegiate or scholastic athletic administration. Whether your sports career is in high schools, colleges, professional sports, or a sport-related business, this program is made accessible to you through online classes during convenient evening hours. You will graduate ready to help athletes and athletic programs grow. Join us, and make the world move!
Affordable and Flexible
-
Idaho State University is seen as one of the
most affordable, accredited universities
in the country.
All admitted students are eligible for a special in-state tuition rate and the chance to apply for ISU scholarships.
100% online classes
offered both synchronously and asynchronously.
St
udents can be enrolled part-time or full-time and start in the fall, spring, or summer semesters.
Competitive Edge-
Hands-on events and paid internship opportunities allow students to gain competitive experiences to land their dream job upon graduation.
Experiences and internships have included:
Big Sky Basketball Conference
Bengal Triathlon at ISU
Idaho Falls Chukars
National Football Foundation and College Hall of Fame
National Girls and Women in Sports Day at ISU
Super Bowl LV
Skills learned include:
Coaching
Ethics and legal processes in sport
Financial management in sport
Marketing in sport
Sport leadership
Sport management
Meet with our Graduate Studies Director
Application, Funding, and Support
Apply
Request More Information
Graduate Application Fee Waiver
Cost
Admissions
Curriculum
Career Opportuntites
News
Student Learning Outcomes
Admission
Meet the
ISU Graduate School admissions requirements
Some programs require additional information (e.g., letters of recommendation); please contact the specific department and review individual departmental sections of this catalog for additional requirements.
Additional Information:
Students must complete a minimum of 33 semester credit hours for the Master of Arts in Athletic Administration.
All students must document professional experience in an athletic setting either by prior athletic administrative experience (minimum of one year) or by completing an approved internship for credit while completing this program.
ISU Course Catalog
Athletic Administration, MA
Curriculum
The Master of Arts in Athletic Administration degree is aligned with 2 sets of standards: The Idaho State University College of Education Standards for Advanced Professionals, and The National Associate for Sport and Physical Education (NASPE) and the North American Society for Sport Management (NASSM) Standards.
The program is designed to strengthen the student’s understanding, knowledge, and skills in the areas of leadership and administration as they relate to the management of athletic programs at the interscholastic and intercollegiate levels. The program also enables students to form and pursue unique course goals and career objectives; such as advanced coaching skills, athletic administration/direction at the high school and collegiate levels. Also, it is possible to complete all degree requirements in one year’s time. (12 cr. in the Fall, 12 cr. in the Spring, 9 cr. in the Summer, for example.) The curriculum is based on current NASPE/NASSM standards.
NASPE - NASSME Content Standards:
The NASPE-NASSM standards for Master's Degree Programs in Sport Management address eight specific areas that include the following: Management, Leadership and Organization in Sport, Research in Sport, Legal Aspects of Sport, Marketing in Sport, Sport Business in the Social Context, Financial Management in Sport, Ethics in Sport Management, and Field Experience in Sport Management.
Career Opportunities
Athletic marketer
Coach
Collegiate athletic director
Financial sport manager
Intercollegiate athletic director
Recreation and youth development Manager
Secondary education athletic director
Sport agent
Sports manage
r
News
Idaho State University to Celebrate National Girls and Women in Sports Day
ISU Professor's Research Shows Improvements to Concussion Education and Management in Idaho Schools
ISU Physical Education Students Gain Hands-on Experience at 2022 SHAPE Conference
Students Host Bengal Triathlon
ISU Students Gain Real-World Experience at Big Sky Conference Basketball Tournaments
Students in the Athletic Administration Program can expect to achieve the following Student Learning Outcomes.  (SLO)
SLO #1:
Students will apply specific content knowledge to find solutions to complex organizational issues within the sport setting.
SLO #2:
Students will demonstrate socially responsible leadership grounded in the principles of diversity and inclusion, ethical decision making, and sustainable business practices.
SLO #3:
Students will exhibit the ability to gather relevant information and critically examine the information through multiple analytical approaches.
SLO #4:
Students will display the ability to synthesize information and devise viable solutions in complex organizational contexts within the sport setting.
SLO #5:
Students will demonstrate exemplary communication both individually and in groups across written, oral, and technological platforms.
Howard Gauthier, PhD
Professor, Athletic Administration Coordinator
Office: ISU-Meridian
(208) 373-1753
gauthowa@isu.edu
Vita
Focus Areas:
Sport Leadership
Contact Us
hpss@isu.edu
(208) 282-4852
Human Performance and Sport Studies Department Reed Gym 921 S. 8th Ave., Stop 8105 Pocatello, Idaho 83209
Request Information
Book an Appointment
@IdahoStateEd