Link: http://www.isu.edu/bas
Bachelor of Applied Science
The Bachelor of Applied Science (BAS) degree is an interdisciplinary degree designed specifically for students who have completed Associate of Applied Science (AAS) degrees approved by the Idaho State Board of Education. The purpose of this degree is to provide AAS graduates the opportunity to expand their general education competencies and to enhance the technical coursework of their AAS with related academic coursework. This degree builds upon the knowledge a student gained through the pursuit of the AAS while providing the education and critical-thinking skills that open career opportunities. The BAS degree is administered through the Student Services Office in the College of Technology. All individual degree plans are approved by assigned advisors and a committee.
The BAS degree includes the following credit requirements:
Requirements for Robotics and Communication Systems Engineering Technology (3-year A.A.S)
Professional-Technical credits applied toward the BAS Degree
76
General Education Requirements, 16 credits of which will be completed in the A.A.S.
approx 32
Academic Coursework (all upper division credits earned beyond coursework completed for A.A.S. degree) *
18
Total Credits Required
136
Requirements for all Other ISU CTech A.A.S. Programs*
Professional-Technical credits applied toward the BAS Degree
up to 50
General Education Requirements, 16 credits of which will be completed in the A.A.S.
approx 34
Academic Coursework (all upper division credits) *
36
Total Credits Required
120
* A minimum of 12 of these credits must support the AAS technical coursework. All BAS students must earn a minimum of a 2.0 GPA in academic coursework for graduation. No more than 32 credits of the academic coursework may be taken from the College of Business. Upper division academic coursework must relate to the student's approved goal statement. It is recommended that 24 academic credits be completed after degree plan approval.
Out-of-state AAS degrees must be evaluated for meeting Idaho State Board of Education standards. If the AAS degree is over 5 years old, the student must be evaluated for currency in technical field.
After completing a minimum of 15 credit hours of BAS general education requirements and one semester of the technical program, the BAS student develops an individualized degree plan in consultation with both academic and technical advisors assigned to the student by the BAS committee chair in the College of Technology Student Services Office. Based on the student's concise and clearly written goal statement, the individualized degree plan will list the specific approved courses that meet the above described degree requirements. The degree plan and the goal statement must be approved by the BAS Committee.
For more information, email
Hailey Wadley
.
Certificates and degrees vary by program. Check
program listings
for applicable options.
College of Technology
All Programs
Contact us
ctech@isu.edu
(208) 282-2800
Apply Now
Schedule a Tour
Request Information