Link: https://www.isu.edu/pmhnp/
Certified FNP to Psych Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Certificate
Program Information
Admission Requirements
Application and Selection Process
International Applicants
The Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) to Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner (PMHNP) Certificate is designed to extend the licensure and practice of licensed FNP’s.  The PMHNP Certificate prepares FNP’s to provide psychiatric mental health care along the wellness-illness continuum, effectively evaluate clinical outcomes, identify and manage primary and acute mental health care needs of individuals with extension of expertise to families and communities. The curriculum prepares the student to sit for PMHNP certification.
If you have questions after looking through the School of Nursing website, please see
PMHNP Certificate Application Tips
or the
Graduate Nursing FAQ
for more information
apply to isu school of nursing
Curricula
Family Nurse Practitioner to Psych Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Certificate Program Curriculum
*In order to be eligible for the FNP to PMHNP Certificate Program, the applicant must hold national certification as a Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) and have a minimum of two (2) years of FNP direct care in clinical practice. At this time, other Advanced Practice Certifications will not be considered for the FNP to PMHNP Certificate Program.
All application and admission requirements as posted on the website for the FNP to PMHNP Certificate Program apply. If located outside of Idaho and Utah, some restrictions may apply based on applicant's state of residence.
Goals and Outcomes
Goal
The primary goal of the Post Master’s FNP to PMHNP Certificate is designed to extend the practice and expertise of licensed FNP’s.
Program Outcomes
Assume interprofessional PMHNP clinical practice and health care delivery to rural and diverse populations.
Integrate psychiatric and mental health evidence-based care into existing FNP practice for individuals, families, and communities to improve outcomes.
Finances
Cost of Attendance
Costs for tuition and fees at ISU are listed on the
Cost of Attendance
web page on the Finance and Administration website.
Our online Graduate Programs qualify for "Resident Tuition" rates.
Professional Fees
In addition to ISU tuition and fees, a professional fee is assessed for all undergraduate and graduate students in the School of Nursing. Professional fees for the nursing programs are used to support faculty salaries, instruction support services, durable & disposable equipment and supplies, faculty and staff program travel, capital equipment and a reserve for maintenance and purchase of major capital items.
Current Professional Fees
The list of current professional fees for all School of Nursing programs can be found here on the
Professional Fees
page.
Scholarships
Idaho State University Scholarships
The School of Nursing annually awards over $100,000 in scholarships, and the School of Nursing scholarship application is available annually in April in the
Bengal Online Scholarship System (BOSS)
.
Please see the
Scholarship
Office website for more information about scholarship opportunities available through ISU.
Travel Nursing
Nursing Education Scholarship awarded by Travel Nursing career organization.
Amount: $1,000.
Requirements: Accepted to or currently attending a full-time nursing or medical program at an accredited institution.
Travel Nursing Scholarship
.
Nursing Scholarship
CampusRN has
$15,000
in Scholarships Available to Nursing & Allied Health Students.
Career Opportunities
Nurse Careers
Search Thousands of Entry Level Jobs, Externships, & Scholarship Opportunities on CampusRN.
Faculty Openings
Apply for opportunities to teach right here at the Idaho State University School of Nursing.
Nursing ALD
Browse their Free Job Board, Publications and Events
Admission Requirements
The student must apply to and meet all requirements for admission to the Graduate School. In addition to the general requirements of the Graduate School, the following are required:
Current and unencumbered FNP license
Current national FNP certification
Two years experience as an FNP
Minimum of a Master’s degree in Nursing
FNP program (Master’s or doctoral) transcripts reflecting GPA of 3.0 or higher
Mandatory attendance at the orientation for the FNP to PMHNP Certificate Program to be held on the ISU Pocatello campus in August of the year of admission.
The GRE is not required for admission.
A preadmission interview by the School of Nursing Graduate Admissions Committee may be required. If the applicant resides at a distance of 100 miles, an interview by video conference may be arranged.
Admission to the FNP to PMHNP Certificate Program is contingent on sufficient enrollment as defined by the SON. The School of Nursing Graduate Admissions Committee will make the final recommendation regarding admission. This decision will be based on the evaluation of established application and admission requirements.
If located outside of Idaho and Utah, some restrictions may apply based on applicant's state of residence.
Online Application
Apply to Idaho State University
Applications for Fall 2025 Admission open in September 2024 and applicants are encouraged to apply well before January 15th.
Application Status
Fall 2025 Admission
Open
Application Requirements
The student must apply to and meet all requirements for admission to the Graduate School. In addition to the general requirements of the Graduate School, the following are required:
Submission directly to the Graduate School of official transcripts of all degrees including the completion of the Master of Science in Nursing (MSN or MS in Nursing) or higher and/or certificate program from an accredited nursing program. Official transcripts must be sent directly to the Graduate School from the Registrar's office of the applicant's previous institution(s) of study.
Three professional references attesting to the applicant's FNP clinical competence. All forms are sent through the ISU Graduate School application system.
Submission of professional vitae or resume.
Proof of Family Nurse Practitioner Certification.
Submission of a 3-4 page professional essay (see application in CollegeNet for essay instructions)
A preadmission interview by the School of Nursing Graduate Admissions Committee may be required. If the applicant resides at a distance of 100 miles, an interview by video conference may be arranged.
If located outside of Idaho and Utah, some restrictions may apply based on applicant's state of residence.
Selection Process for the FNP to PMHNP Certificate Program
Application for the FNP to PMHNP Certificate Program will open in September of any academic year. Preference will be given to applications submitted by December 1 of any year. Applications are accepted on a rolling basis until the class is filled. All application and admission requirements as posted on the website for the FNP to PMHNP certificate program apply. Notification of applicants selected for admission and alternates will begin in January of any year. Admission is contingent on sufficient enrollment as defined by the School of Nursing.
International Applicants
Do you accept International Students into Graduate Nursing Programs?
It depends on the student and on the program. To start, please discuss Idaho State University application and admissions information with the ISU International Programs Office. Their staff will have a better idea how international degrees/credits transfer into ISU and what other admissions requirements you may have to complete for Idaho State University. You should also contact the ISU Graduate School and review their requirements for International Students. Once you have contacted those two offices and found out whether or not you are eligible to apply, contact the Academic Advisor for the School of Nursing to discuss program eligibility
For International Students not located in the United States: Our graduate programs require admitted students to attend program Orientation on our Pocatello Campus and certain programs require clinical and/or practicum hours be completed domestically in the United States. These requirements may prevent International Students from successfully completing our graduate programs.
For more details about the International Programs Office, please see their website at
http://www.isu.edu/ipo/
and contact
ipomail@isu.edu.
For more details from the Graduate School, please contact them at gradadmissions@isu.edu. For more information about the nursing program, please see www.isu.edu/nursing and contact the Academic Advisor.
More Information
Questions related to this degree program should be addressed to:
Michelle Anderson, DNP, APRN, FNP-BC, FAANP
Interim DNP Program Coordinator, Director ISU Meridian Health Care and Clinical Associate Professor
Office: Meridian
208-373-1785
andemic9@isu.edu
Professional Profile
Kristy Crownhart, DNP,APRN, FNP-C
Interim Director of Graduate Studies in Nursing and Clinical Assistant Professor
Office: Meridian
208-373-1852
crowkri2@isu.edu
Professional Profile
Andrea Lovelace
Program Admissions and Records Specialist for Grad Programs (Application Questions)
Office: Pocatello
208-282-2325
andrealovelace@isu.edu
Graduate Nursing FAQ