Link: https://coursecat.isu.edu/undergraduate/college-of-health/radiographic-sciences/diagnostic-medical-sonography-cert/
Certificate in Diagnostic Medical Sonography
Accreditation
Idaho State University is fully accredited by the Northwest Commission on College and Universities (NWCCU).
Overview
The Diagnostic Medical Sonography program is designed to facilitate the development of professional diagnostic medical sonographers who have acquired the technical skills and knowledge necessary to fulfill the needs required in the medical imaging setting. The sonographer plays a vital role in the health care team. Due to the rapid growth of technology in the health care setting, there is an increased demand for qualified personnel.
Philosophy
Idaho State University’s Diagnostic Medical Sonography program was developed with the philosophy that didactic education and clinical experience, which includes “hands on,” should happen together for continuity during learning. Therefore, during the entire program, the student learns in the laboratory setting and applies those acquired skills in the clinical setting. This happens on a weekly basis. Furthermore, in the classroom, students acquire the theoretical information necessary to perform as sonographers. The next step involves laboratory experiences where the opportunity to apply technological skills is acquired by using phantoms and simulations. Students then progress and perfect their skills by working with sonographers in a clinical environment. Additionally, several of the classes taught in the program focus on specialized areas of sonographic imaging, such as pediatrics, echocardiology, and perinatology and are taught by experts in their respective fields. This is atypical of most Diagnostic Medical Sonography programs and is a unique feature that sets the program apart from other programs. Our philosophy is that students who learn from experts become experts. When graduation approaches, students are ready to enter the profession confidently.
Mission
The mission of the Diagnostic Medical Sonography program is to provide students with both the academic and technical foundations to competently and safely perform sonography exams and procedures, to prepare qualified diagnostic medical sonographers who will ethically respond to the needs of patients with technical competence and compassion, and to assume a vital professional role as a medical team member.
Core Values
The Radiographic Science Program is committed to the following core values:
Academics
– promoting excellence in all academic endeavors.
Knowledge
– recognizing the significance of new knowledge in a profession that is predisposed to change while maintaining traditional values and emphasizing the needs of the patient.
Dedication
– helping meet the statewide and regional needs by providing access to quality education to prospective students.
Community
– helping meet the needs of the community in the health care setting by providing competent, qualified sonographers who are eligible upon graduation to sit for the national certification examination in diagnostic medical sonography sponsored by the American Registry for Diagnostic Medical Sonography (ARDMS).
Certificate Program
The Diagnostic Medical Sonography program at Idaho State University offers a certificate program.
The Diagnostic Medical Sonography program is an undergraduate,
3 or 4 consecutive semesters (depending on the track chosen) beginning in the summer.
To qualify for the program, applicants must first be graduates of a radiography program and currently registered with the American Registry of Radiologic Technologists (or be students in their final semester of a radiography program). During the first semester of the program student takes introductory sonography courses based in general imaging procedures and sonographic principles and instrumentation. During the next two or three semesters (depending on the track chosen), the student studies and practices the clinical application of sonography in the university laboratory and at affiliated hospitals and clinics. The graduate is eligible to take the national examination for certification administered by the ARDMS.
The Diagnostic Medical Sonography program is designed to develop the technical skills and knowledge necessary for the student to satisfactorily function as a sonographer. Learning experiences enable the student to demonstrate competency in the technical aspect of the profession as well as human relations. The program further seeks to develop student interest in the professional societies and provides methodology to maintain competency upon graduation.
Upon completion of the program, the graduate will be able to work as a sonographer in a hospital, clinic, or private office and effectively perform his/her duties with patients in a responsible, ethical, and professional manner. Because of the rapid growth of the medical field, there is a need for well-trained sonographers.
Academic Standards
A grade of “C-” or better is required in all prerequisite and program specific courses. A student who fails to achieve a minimum of a “C-” grade in a course designated Radiographic Science (RS) will be dismissed from the program and prohibited from taking any further courses with the RS designation until the course(s) in question has/have been completed with (a) minimum grade(s) of “C-.”
The student is required to reapply to the program, in writing, at least one (1) month prior to the first day of classes of the semester in which readmission is sought. Additional details regarding readmission can be found in the current
Diagnostic Medical Sonography Student Handbook.
Admission Procedures
Admission to the Diagnostic Medical Sonography program is competitive. Students will be evaluated and points awarded by using grades in radiography program curriculum including anatomy and physiology (with labs), cross-sectional anatomy, patient care, and pathophysiology. Radiography program GPA will also be evaluated; a minimum grade point average of 3.0 is required. Additional points are awarded to ISU graduates and residents of the State of Idaho. Procedures for admission to the program include:
Complete procedures for admission to the University.
Complete and return the Diagnostic Medical Sonography Application Form and $100 fee.
Completion of either an associates or bachelors degree from an accredited radiography program.
Submit
official transcripts of all college and/or university courses completed, including advanced placement or dual-enrolled courses.
Application Deadline
The above admission procedures must be completed and received by the Diagnostic Medical Sonography Program by
February 15th of the year the student is seeking admission. If the 15th falls on a weekend or holiday, the application must be received by the Friday preceding the deadline date. The sonography program begins in the summer semester.
Diagnostic Medical Sonography Certificate Program
A student may be awarded a Certificate in Diagnostic Medical Sonography by fulfilling the following requirements:
Professional Curriculum
Course List
Code
Title
Credits
DMS 4400
Introduction to Sonography
1
DMS 4401
Abdominal Sonography I
2
DMS 4402
Abdominal Sonography II
1
DMS 4404
OB/GYN Sonography I
1
DMS 4405
OB/GYN Sonography II
1
DMS 4406
OB/GYN Sonography III
1
DMS 4407
Sonography Physics and Instrumentation I
1
DMS 4408
Sonography Physics and Instrumentation II
1
DMS 4409
Sonography Physics and Instrumentation III
1
DMS 4410
Fundamentals of Sonography Lab I
1
DMS 4411
Fundamentals of Sonography Lab II
1
DMS 4412
Fundamentals of Sonography Lab III
1
DMS 4413
Sonography Case Studies I
1
DMS 4414
Sonography Case Studies II
1
DMS 4415
Sonography Case Studies III
1
DMS 4416
Vascular Sonography
2
DMS 4417
Superficial Structures in Sonography
1
DMS 4418
Breast Sonography
1
DMS 4419
Sonography Specialty Areas
1
DMS 4451
Research Principles in Sonography
2
DMS 4476
Sonography ARDMS Registry Review
1
DMS 4491
Applied Sonography I
1
4-6
DMS 4492
Applied Sonography II
1
6-8
DMS 4493
Applied Sonography III
1
6-8
DMS 4494
Applied Sonography IV
2
6
Total Credits
46
1
Credit varies for 12-month vs 16-month curriculum.
2
Only required for 16-month curriculum.