Link: https://www.isu.edu/publichealth/chw/
Community Health Worker Academic Certificate
ISU offers the Community Health Worker academic certificate for degree-seeking individuals. For non-degree seeking individuals, ISU offers continuing education courses through the
Community Health Worker Training Academy.
The Community Health Worker certificate consists of 9-10 credits and can be completed online or through a combination of live-online and in-person coursework. Credits earned in this program can be applied toward the Community and Public Health Major or other Bachelor's degrees.
Community Health Worker Application
Required Core Courses (4 credit hours required)
CPH 1100
Foundations for Community Health Workers
3
HE 2201
Issues in Health and Wellness
1
Health and Wellness – Beyond the Basics (
Select at least 2 credit-hours from the following)
HE 1190
Alcohol and Drug Awareness I
1
HE 2290
Alcohol and Drug Awareness II
1
HE 2200
Promoting Wellness
3
HE 3342
Stress & Emotional Health
3
HE 2210
Medical Terminology
2
NTD 2239
Nutrition
3
PSCI 2205
Drugs in Society
2
Promoting Healthy Behaviors (
Select at least 3 credit-hours from the following)
HE 2232
Helping Theories
3
COUN 3300
Interpersonal Skills in Health Professions
2
COUN 3350
Self-Fulfilling Behavior
1
HE 4401
Issues in Health and Wellness: (Motivational Interviewing OR Foundations of Health and Wellness Coaching )
3
The Community Health Worker Academic Certificate is offered by the Department of Community and Public Health under the College of Health. This academic certificate meets the needs of community health workers who wish to pursue training that will prepare them to work in the growing Community Health Worker occupation. Community Health Workers are increasingly recognized as valuable members of the health system that has increased in Idaho and across the nation in response to the Affordable Care Act and a national shift toward value-based care. Community Health Workers who successfully complete this certificate will be prepared to assume a position as a community health worker in clinic or community settings and assist in the development and implementation of community health programs within their community.
Career Development and Professional Growth
Community Health Workers partner with local public health agencies and primary care and specialty care providers to address social determinants of health among community members. They also assess and evaluate community services and systems in order to identify gaps in, and serve as a resource for, healthcare services in both urban and rural, medically underserved communities. Community Health Workers are a part of a multidisciplinary team that includes physicians, nurses, social workers, discharge planners, pharmacists, and other members of the healthcare team. Community Health Workers help individuals and communities overcome barriers that prevent them from accessing and benefitting from healthcare services. They serve as advocates, health educators, counselors, system navigators, case managers, facilitators, liaisons, community brokers, and resource coordinators. They also provide prevention and outreach education on a variety of health issues including, oral and mental health, at the individual and community level. The overall goal of the community health workers is mentoring and empowering citizens, communities, and healthcare systems to achieve positive outcomes and to reach optimal levels of wellness for everyone.
Bureau of Labor Projections for Community Health Workers
Idaho: 101 positions projected to be added from 2016-2026 (growth rate 20.2%). Estimated 76 Annual openings (10 due to growth, 66 due to turnover)
Idaho: Median wage $14.29/hour
National: 16% growth from 2016-2026 (much faster than average)
National Median Annual Salary as of May 2018: $39,540
Contact
Ryan Lindsay
Community and Public Health
lindrya3@isu.edu
(208) 373-1779