Link: https://www.isu.edu/nursing/programs/doctor-of-nursing-practice-dnp/
Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP)
Program Information
Admission Requirements
Application and Selection Process
International Applicants
The Doctor of Nursing Practice degree program will prepare clinical leaders for comprehensive clinical nursing practice that influences health care outcomes for individuals or populations, grounded in evidence-based application, within a changing health care system.
Students are required to come to both ISU Pocatello and Meridian campuses 2-4 days each semester for clinical intensives for the FNP track.  PMHNP students are required to come to the Pocatello campus for new student orientation and Health Assessment intensives at the Meridian campus
Degree options include Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) and Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner (PMHNP).
We do assist with clinical placements for your required clinical hours for our program.
If you have questions after looking through the School of Nursing website, please see
DNP Application Tips
or the
Graduate Nursing FAQ
for more information.
Currently we are only able to accept DNP students from Florida, Hawaii, Idaho, Indiana, Maine, Michigan, Montana, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Carolina, South Carolina, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Wisconsin, and Oregon.  If you reside in one of these states and are willing to conduct your clinical hours in Idaho or another approved state, we can allow you to attend.
apply for isu school of nursing
Curricula
Both the Family Nurse Practitioner and Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner programs are BSN-DNP degree programs. Graduation from an accredited Master's in Nursing program will also be considered for admission.
Family Nurse Practitioner
Family Nurse Practitioner Full Time Curriculum
Family Nurse Practitioner Part Time Curriculum
Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner
Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Full Time Curriculum
Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Part Time Curriculum
Post Master's DNP Degree for Certified FNPs and PMHNPs
Family Nurse Practitioner and Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Post Master's Curriculum
*In order to be eligible for the Post Master's DNP degree program, the applicant must hold national certification as a Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) or Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner (PMHNP). In order to be eligible for the Post Master's DNP degree program, FNP option, the applicant must hold national certification as an FNP. In order to be eligible for the Post Master's DNP degree program, PMHNP option, the applicant must hold national certification as a PMHNP. Other Advanced Practice Certifications will not be considered for the Post Master's DNP degree program.
All application and admission requirements as posted on the website for the DNP degree program apply.
Goals and Outcomes
Goal
The primary goal of the DNP degree program is to prepare experts in advanced nursing practice in specialized areas with an emphasis on innovation and evidence-based application to improve health care outcomes.
Program Outcomes
Assume interprofessional leadership to advance clinical practice and health care delivery to rural and diverse populations.
Integrate nursing science into evidence based care for individuals, families, and communities to improve outcomes.
Incorporate practice initiatives to improve systems of health care delivery.
Advocate policy for health care.
Professional License Disclosure
Finances
Cost of Attendance
Cost for tuition, general and professional fees and estimated cost are listed on the
Cost of Attendance
and
Professional Fees
pages
Scholarships
Idaho State University Scholarships
The School of Nursing annually awards over $100,000 in scholarships, and the School of Nursing scholarship application is available annually in April in the
Bengal Online Scholarship System (BOSS)
.
Please see the
Scholarship
Office website for more information about scholarship opportunities available through ISU.
Travel Nursing
Nursing Education Scholarship awarded by Travel Nursing career organization.
Amount: $1,000.
Requirements: Accepted to or currently attending a full-time nursing or medical program at an accredited institution.
Travel Nursing Scholarship
.
Nursing Scholarship
CampusRN has
$15,000
in Scholarships Available to Nursing & Allied Health Students.
Career Opportunities
Nurse Careers
Search Thousands of Entry Level Jobs, Externships, & Scholarship Opportunities on CampusRN.
Faculty Openings
Apply for opportunities to teach right here at the Idaho State University School of Nursing.
Nursing ALD
Browse their Free Job Board, Publications and Events
Admission Requirements
The student must apply to and meet all requirements for admission to the Graduate School. In addition to the general requirements of the Graduate School, the following are required:
Earned Bachelor of Science (BS in Nursing or BSN) from program accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE) or other nationally recognized accrediting body for nursing education.
Cumulative GPA of 3.0 or higher (calculated based on previous 60 credits of undergraduate coursework) from a Bachelor of Science degree program (BS in Nursing or BSN).
English Proficiency Exams: The SON DNP Program adheres to the
ISU Graduate School policy
for those students who have not graduated from an accredited college or university in the United States (at the undergraduate and/or graduate level) and whose native language is not English.
Completed application, preferably before December 1st. Applications for Fall Admission are reviewed in the order they are received and accepted on a rolling basis until class filled.
Verification of valid and current unencumbered Registered Nursing license.
Completion of a preadmission interview by the School of Nursing DNP Admissions Committee. If the applicant resides at a distance of 100 miles, an interview by video conference may be arranged.
Mandatory attendance at the orientation for the DNP program to be held on the ISU Pocatello campus in August of the year of admission.
Two years of documented previous healthcare or nursing experience before admission is preferred, but not required. The GRE is not required for admission.
Admission to the FNP or PMHNP DNP degree option is contingent on sufficient enrollment as defined by the SON. If located outside of Idaho and Utah, some restrictions may apply based on applicant's state of residence.
Currently we are only able to accept DNP students from Florida, Hawaii, Idaho, Indiana, Maine, Michigan, Montana, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Carolina, South Carolina, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Wisconsin, and Oregon (FNP only at this time).  If you reside in one of these states and are willing to conduct your clinical hours in Idaho or another approved state, we can allow you to attend.
The School of Nursing DNP Admissions Committee will make the final recommendation regarding admission. This decision will be based on the evaluation of established application and admission requirements.
Online Application
Apply to Idaho State University
Applications for Fall 2025 Admission will open September 1, 2024 and applicants are encouraged to apply well before December 1st, 2024. We will begin evaluating applications in January and applicants will be notified of admission decisions by the end of May 2025.
Application Status
BSN to DNP-FNP
Open
BSN to DNP-PMHNP
Open
Post Masters DNP* (See "Program Information" for qualifications)
Open
Application Requirements
The student must apply to and meet all requirements for admission to the Graduate School. In addition to the general requirements of the Graduate School, the following are required:
Submission of official transcripts from each institution at which they have taken any post-secondary work directly to the Graduate School. Evidence of a completed BS in Nursing or BSN from an accredited nursing program must be listed in official transcripts.
Three professional references attesting to the applicant's capacity and potential for doctoral study.
Submission of professional vitae or resume.
Submission of a 3-4 page professional essay. Please respond to the following
in your own words
:
Explain why you chose to pursue the Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) degree instead of the Master’s Degree for your NP education?
Describe the patient population about which you are most passionate.
Explain problems or areas of improvement related to the patient population described above.
Clarify how you might go about addressing/solving one of the problems or areas of improvement in your role as an NP.
Formatting Guidelines (use APA Format as a guide):
Double-space.
One-inch margins.
Times New Roman font with 12 point size.
Post Master's Applicants ONLY:
Post Master's applicants must provide proof of certification in the option (FNP of PMHNP) for which application is submitted.
The Post Master's applicant must submit at the time of application an official letter (with the university seal) which documents the total number of clinical hours completed in previous Master's degree advanced practice program in Nursing from which the student graduated. An official transcript which documents the total number of clinical hours completed in previous advanced practice program will be accepted. The applicant will be required as a process of admission to contract with the School of Nursing to complete additional clinical hours as determined to meet national requirements for the DNP degree.
If located outside of Idaho and Utah, some restrictions may apply based on applicant's state of residence.
Selection Process for the Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nursing Program
Applications for the DNP program will open in September of any academic year and be accepted on a rolling basis until a class is filled. Preference will be given to Full Time applications and applications will be received on a rolling basis, preferably before December 1. Applications will be reviewed in the order they were received starting in January and reviewed until a cohort is full. All application and admission requirements as posted on the website for the DNP degree program apply. Notification of successful applicants for admission and alternates will be announced in May of any year.
International Applicants
Do you accept International Students into Graduate Nursing Programs?
It depends on the student and on the program. To start, please discuss Idaho State University application and admissions information with the ISU International Programs Office. Their staff will have a better idea how international degrees/credits transfer into ISU and what other admissions requirements you may have to complete for Idaho State University. You should also contact the ISU Graduate School and review their requirements for International Students. Once you have contacted those two offices and found out whether or not you are eligible to apply, contact the Academic Advisor for the School of Nursing to discuss program eligibility
For International Students not located in the United States: Our graduate programs require admitted students to attend program Orientation on our Pocatello Campus and certain programs require clinical and/or practicum hours be completed domestically in the United States. These requirements may prevent International Students from successfully completing our graduate programs.
For more details about the International Programs Office, please see their website at
http://www.isu.edu/ipo/
and contact
ipomail@isu.edu.
For more details from the Graduate School, please contact them at gradadmissions@isu.edu. For more information about the nursing program, please see www.isu.edu/nursing and contact the Academic Advisor.
More Information
Questions related to this degree program should be addressed to:
Michelle Anderson, DNP, APRN, FNP-BC, FAANP
Interim DNP Program Coordinator, Director ISU Meridian Health Care and Clinical Associate Professor
Office: Meridian
208-373-1785
andemic9@isu.edu
Professional Profile
Andrea Lovelace
Program Admissions and Records Specialist for Graduate Programs
Office: Pocatello
208-282-2325
andrealovelace@isu.edu
Graduate Nursing FAQ