Link: https://coursecat.isu.edu/graduate/artsandletters/psychology/phdexperimentalpsychology/
Doctor of Philosophy in Experimental Psychology
Admission Requirements
Admission requirements are as stated for the Master of Science in Psychology with the following additions: all students must be recommended by the Experimental Admissions Committee of the Psychology Department.
General Requirements
All doctoral students must complete the Master of Science in Psychology or its equivalent. Students entering the doctoral training program at Idaho State University with a master’s degree from another institution will receive full or partial credit, based on an examination of completed course work and research. The department chair, the director of experimental training, and the department subject matter expert(s) will review all relevant documents and determine the course work and research, if any, that will be required to compensate for omissions and/or non-equivalency. The following requirements are all in addition to the Master of Science requirements.
Course List
Code
Title
Credits
Required Courses
PSYC 6637
Multivariate Statistics and Research Design
3
Select one or both of the following for a total of 10 credits:
10
PSYC 5583
Research Experience
PSYC 6641
Research Experience and Writing
Research
PSYC 8850
Dissertation
12
Electives
1
18
Total Hours (36 from the M.S. degree + 31 additional credits)
67
1
Students must complete 18 credits of elective classes. Up to nine credits of these electives may be taken outside the Psychology Department. Electives should be approved by the student’s faculty advisor. The 12 elective credits earned for the Master of Science degree will satisfy course requirements for the Doctor of Philosophy degree, subject to approval of the Department Chair.
Scholarship - Research Development
Upon completion of Area Requirements plus
PSYC 6627
Statistics and Research Design I
,
PSYC 6632
Statistics and Research Design II
, and PSYC 6650 Thesis, doctoral students are required to pass a Qualifying Exam to be admitted to doctoral candidacy. The exam samples each student’s integrative writing skills and conceptual abilities. Students write independently on integrative topics from across the foundational areas of general psychology or from an individualized and focused area of scholarly research.
Students may be admitted to candidacy for the doctoral degree upon satisfactory completion of the Master of Science degree (or its equivalent) and the Qualifying Exam. Candidates for the doctoral degree may not propose a dissertation (
PSYC 8850
) until admitted to candidacy.
A five-member doctoral committee will be formed by the student and his/her advisor. Three members of the doctoral committee must be full-time equivalent faculty members of the Department of Psychology, including at least one experimental faculty member. The fourth and fifth members must meet Graduate School requirements and include the Graduate Faculty Representative. Students will present findings and implications of the dissertation to departmental faculty, students, and community members at an open forum.