Link: https://www.isu.edu/nursing/programs/doctor-of-philosophy-phd-in-nursing/
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Nursing
Program Information
Admission Requirements
Application and Selection Process
International Applicants
The Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Nursing degree program will prepare the candidate to conduct independent research, collaborate as a scholar and leader, and educate for improving health and health care globally.
Students will be admitted to the Ph.D. in Nursing degree program on full time status or part time status.
Entry into the Ph.D. program is an earned Bachelor of Science in Nursing from an accredited program. Graduation from an accredited Master's in Nursing program will also be considered for admission.
Apply for isu school of nursing
The Doctor of Philosophy in Nursing degree program courses are delivered online.
Doctor of Philosophy in Nursing Full Time Curriculum
Doctor of Philosophy in Nursing Part Time Curriculum
If you have questions after looking through the School of Nursing website, please see
PhD Application Tips
or
Graduate Nursing FAQ
for more information
Goals and Outcomes
Goal
The Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Nursing degree program is designed with a research emphasis dedicated to extending nursing science and improving the delivery of health care for rural and vulnerable individuals, families and communities within existing cultural, geographical, and health care context. An interprofessional research focus will provide an opportunity for students to learn by collaborating with other professionals, and prepare graduates for leading change and advancing health and health care systems.
Program Outcomes
Each student will complete a core curriculum and work closely with interprofessional faculty advisors to complete an individualized course of study, which includes individual student goals and develops the foundation for a program of research. Students will complete the coursework and dissertation through online technologies integrating an interprofessional/multidisciplinary approach to:
Communicate scientific knowledge through mentorship, collaboration, and dissemination.
Create original research that contributes to scientific nursing knowledge.
Contribute to the development of methodologies congruent with the broad concerns of the nursing discipline.
Contribute to the discovery, application, and integration of nursing and interprofessional knowledge and leadership.
Finances
Cost of Attendance
Costs for tuition and fees at ISU are listed on the
Cost of Attendance
web page on the Finance and Administration website.
Our online Graduate Programs qualify for "Resident Tuition" rates.
Professional Fees
In addition to ISU tuition and fees, a professional fee is assessed for all undergraduate and graduate students in the School of Nursing. Professional fees for the nursing programs are used to support faculty salaries, instruction support services, durable & disposable equipment and supplies, faculty and staff program travel, capital equipment and a reserve for maintenance and purchase of major capital items.
Current Professional Fees
The list of current professional fees for all School of Nursing programs can be found here on the
Professional Fees
page.
Scholarships
Idaho State University Scholarships
The School of Nursing annually awards over $100,000 in scholarships, and the School of Nursing scholarship application is available annually in April in the
Bengal Online Scholarship System (BOSS)
.
Please see the
Scholarship
Office website for more information about scholarship opportunities available through ISU.
Travel Nursing
Nursing Education Scholarship awarded by Travel Nursing career organization.
Amount: $1,000.
Requirements: Accepted to or currently attending a full-time nursing or medical program at an accredited institution.
Travel Nursing Scholarship
.
Nursing Scholarship
CampusRN has
$15,000
in Scholarships Available to Nursing & Allied Health Students.
Career Opportunities
Nurse Careers
Search Thousands of Entry Level Jobs, Externships, & Scholarship Opportunities on CampusRN.
Faculty Openings
Apply for opportunities to teach right here at the Idaho State University School of Nursing.
Nursing ALD
Browse their Free Job Board, Publications and Events
Admission Requirements
The student must apply to and meet all requirements for admission to the Graduate School. In addition to the general requirements of the Graduate School, the following are required:
Earned Bachelor of Science (BS in Nursing or BSN) from program accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE) or other nationally recognized accrediting body for nursing education. Master's degree in Nursing from an accredited program will be considered.
Cumulative GPA of 3.5 or higher from a Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BS or BSN) program or ≥ 3.5 GPA based on previous 60 credits of undergraduate coursework.
English Proficiency Exams: The SON Ph.D. in Nursing Program adheres to the
ISU Graduate School policy
for those students who have not graduated from an accredited college or university in the United States (at the undergraduate and/or graduate level) and whose native language is not English.
Completed application, preferably before January 15. Applications for Fall Admission are reviewed in the order they are received and accepted on a rolling basis until class filled.
Verification of valid and current unencumbered Registered Nursing license.
Completion of a preadmission interview by the School of Nursing Ph.D. Admissions Committee. If the applicant resides at a distance over 300 miles, an interview by video conference may be arranged.
Mandatory attendance at the orientation for the Ph.D. program to be held on the ISU Pocatello campus in August of the year of admission.
The GRE is not required for admission.
The School of Nursing Ph.D. Admissions committee will make the final recommendation regarding admission. This decision will be based on evaluation of established application and admission requirements. Meeting minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the program.
Online Application
Apply to Idaho State University
All application materials are submitted in one application through the Graduate School.
We will begin evaluating applications in January and applicants will be notified of admission decisions by the end of May 2025.
Fall 2025 Admission
Open now September 1, 2024-April 30, 2025
Priority Deadline
February 1, 2025
Application Requirements
The student must apply to and meet all requirements for admission to the Graduate School. In addition to the general requirements of the Graduate School, the following are required:
Submission of official transcripts from each institution at which they have taken any post-secondary work directly to the Graduate School. Evidence of a completed BS in Nursing or BSN from an accredited nursing program must be listed in official transcripts.
Submission of a professional essay (3-4 pages) describing education, research, clinical and life experiences that prepare the applicant for the Ph.D program, and how this preparation will facilitate career goals. Present a summary of your experience, nursing philosophy, and interest in higher education. Describe experiences which have motivated you to pursue a PhD degree in Nursing. Present clearly stated goals for a career path following completion of the PhD degree. Describe research focus of interest, and ideas related to conducting research in this particular area.
Submission of a writing sample (professional paper).
Three professional references attesting to the applicant's capacity and potential for doctoral study using the form provided on the application site.  At least one reference should be from an academic source and one from a professional clinical site.
Submission of professional vitae or resume.
Selection Process for the Ph.D in Nursing Program
Review of complete applications begins in January for Fall Admission. Applications are reviewed in the order they are received and accepted on a rolling basis until class filled. All application and admission requirements as posted on the website for the Ph.D. degree program apply. Notification of successful applicants for admission and alternates will be announced in May for Fall Admission of any year.
International Applicants
Do you accept International Students into Graduate Nursing Programs?
It depends on the student and on the program. To start, please discuss Idaho State University application and admissions information with the ISU International Programs Office. Their staff will have a better idea how international degrees/credits transfer into ISU and what other admissions requirements you may have to complete for Idaho State University. You should also contact the ISU Graduate School and review their requirements for International Students. Once you have contacted those two offices and found out whether or not you are eligible to apply, contact the Academic Advisor for the School of Nursing to discuss program eligibility
For International Students not located in the United States: Our graduate programs require admitted students to attend program Orientation on our Pocatello Campus and certain programs require clinical and/or practicum hours be completed domestically in the United States. These requirements may prevent International Students from successfully completing our graduate programs.
For more details about the International Programs Office, please see their website at
http://www.isu.edu/ipo/
and contact
ipomail@isu.edu.
For more details from the Graduate School, please contact them at gradadmissions@isu.edu. For more information about the nursing program, please see www.isu.edu/nursing and contact the Academic Advisor.
More Information
Questions related to this degree program should be addressed to:
Gina Clarkson, PhD, APRN, NNP-BC
Interim Associate Dean and Director and Associate Professor School of Nursing
Office: Pocatello
208-282-3829
clargina@isu.edu
Professional Profile
Andrea Lovelace
Program Admissions and Records Specialist for Grad Programs (Application Questions)
Office: Pocatello
208-282-2325
andrealovelace@isu.edu
Graduate Nursing FAQ