Link: https://coursecat.isu.edu/graduate/scienceengineering/mathematics/damath/
Doctor of Arts in Mathematics
Admission Requirements
For admission to the D.A. program in Mathematics, the applicant must meet all admission requirements of the Idaho State University Graduate School as well as the following admission requirements of the department:
completion of all requirements for a master's degree equivalent to the M.S. degree in Mathematics at Idaho State University before the start of the initial enrollment;
at least 3.5 grade point average (GPA) out of 4.0 in all previous graduate course work; and
at least the 67
th
percentile on the quantitative reasoning section and 50
th
percentile for the average of the percentiles on the verbal reasoning, quantitative reasoning, and analytical writing sections of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) General Test.
In addition to completing the application procedure specified by the Graduate School, an applicant to the D.A. program in Mathematics must:
submit a letter addressing the applicant's reasons for pursuing the D.A. degree in Mathematics uploaded with the application to the Idaho State University Graduate School;
arrange for at least three confidential letters of recommendation, to be submitted within the application to the Idaho State University Graduate School, and addressing the applicant's background and potential for success in the study of advanced mathematics and teaching of college-level mathematics courses.
Applicants will be selected according to the following criteria:
measure of success in completing the master's degree;
satisfactory GRE scores (see Item 3 of the above departmental admission requirements);
teaching experience;
letters of recommendation; and
applicant's reasons for pursuing the D.A. degree.
An applicant who wishes to be considered for financial assistance must complete a Financial Assistance Application form and submit the completed Financial Assistance Application form directly to the Idaho State University Graduate School.
Applications for Fall semester enrollment must be received by April 1
st
to be given full consideration.
Applications for Spring semester enrollment must be received by November 1st to be given full consideration.
For more information about applying and admissions requirements, please visit the Graduate School Program website at:  isu.edu/graduate/
Residence
Up to six credits beyond the master’s degree may be transferred into the program. Two consecutive semesters of full-time study are required in residence.
Committees and Advising
The student will be advised initially by the departmental graduate committee. This group will be the student’s temporary advising committee and will assist in the selection of the student’s permanent committee which will supervise the remainder of the student’s program.
General Requirements
The program requires coursework, a thesis, teaching internships, and examinations as described below. The program must include a minimum of 48 credits beyond the master's degree and at least two 6600-level sequences taken in residence. Approval for optional courses is granted by the departmental graduate committee.
Course List
Code
Title
Credits
Course Work
Mathematics Component
MATH 6625
Real Analysis I
3
MATH 6626
Real Analysis II
3
MATH 6627
Complex Analysis I
3
MATH 6628
Complex Analysis II
3
MATH 6631
Abstract Algebra I
3
MATH 6632
Abstract Algebra II
3
MATH 6671
Topology I
3
MATH 6672
Topology II
3
Twelve additional 6600-level Mathematics credits, including one full-year sequence
12
Interdisciplinary and Applied Mathematics Component
The following courses satisfy this requirement:
15
MATH 5550
Mathematical Statistics I
MATH 5551
Mathematical Statistics II
MATH 5521
Advanced Engineering Mathematics I
MATH 5522
Advanced Engineering Mathematics II
MATH 5541
Introduction to Numerical Analysis I
MATH 5542
Introduction to Numerical Analysis II
MATH 5557
Applied Regression Analysis
MATH 5558
Experimental Design
MATH 5559
Applied Multivariate Analysis
MATH 5565
Partial Differential Equations
MATH 6641
Numerical Analysis I
MATH 6642
Numerical Analysis II
MATH 6652
Stochastic Processes
MATH 6653
Advanced Topics in Probability and Statistics
MATH 6662
Differential Equations I
MATH 6663
Differential Equations II
MATH 6664
Methods of Applied Mathematics I
MATH 6665
Methods of Applied Mathematics II
Graduate courses taken in other departments may be applied toward this requirement, but such courses must contain a substantial mathematics component and be approved by the departmental graduate committee.
Education Component
MATH 6600
Introduction to College Mathematics Teaching
1
MATH 6610
Topics in College Mathematics Teaching
1
MATH 6692
Doctor of Arts Seminar
2
MATH 6693
Mathematical Exposition
1
An approved course in technical or expository writing if recommended by the departmental graduate committee in consultation with the student’s permanent committee.
Doctor of Arts Thesis
An expository research paper in mathematics or mathematics education.
6
Teaching Internship
MATH 7700
Supervised Teaching Internship
6
Total Credits
68
Examinations
D.A. Written Examination: A written comprehensive examination on undergraduate-level mathematics.
Oral Examination: An oral examination on the four 6600-level sequences listed in the Mathematics Component.
Final Examination: The candidate will present to the public a lecture on the candidate’s dissertation and will answer any questions that arise. Following the lecture and question period, the candidate will be examined orally by the candidate’s dissertation committee on topics related to the dissertation.
Doctor of Philosophy in Engineering and Applied Science
A doctoral program in Engineering and Applied Science, administered through the College of Science and Engineering, is available to mathematics students. The complete program description is provided in the
Engineering and Applied Science
section of the Graduate Catalog.