Link: https://www.isu.edu/tes/undergraduate-programs/early-childhood-education-/
Early Childhood Education
Program Information
Make an impact by influencing the youngest of learners at they begin their educational journey. The
Bachelor of Arts in Blended Early Childhood Education
program will prepare you for a gratifying career teaching children, with or without disabilities or special needs, between the ages of birth and third grade. Your teaching career will include collaborating with other professionals to improve learning opportunities for young children by providing them a strong educational foundation for the best possible lifelong outcomes. Become an advocate for children and discover your passion for early childhood profession!
Blended Early Childhood Education/Early Childhood Special Education Requirements:
Completion of an Associate's Degree (A.A.S) in Early Childhood Education from an accredited institution of higher learning.
Those holding the A.A.S. should check with the advisor in the College of Education's
Kent Center for Student Success
Student
to determine whether additional general education credits are required for graduation.
Learn more about the Idaho State University College of Technology's
Associate Degree in Early Childhood Education
(AA, AS, or AAS) that fulfills the associate level degree requirement for the Blended Early Childhood Education program.
Learn more about the B.A. Blended
Early Childhood Elementary Education Required Coursework
The goal of the Early Childhood Education Program is to prepare professionals who have the necessary knowledge, dispositions, and abilities to:
Enhance learning and development of young children, with and without disabilities, between the ages of birth and third grade.
Establish collaborative relationships with families and other professionals in ways that produce outcomes for young children.
View their own professional development as a lifelong endeavor.
Advocate for children, families, and the early childhood profession.
Application, Funding, and Support
Apply
Request More Information
Cost
Admissions
Curriculum
Career Opportunities
Job Outlook
Idaho State University Admissions Process
For
Undergraduate
Students:
Create an account
with Idaho State University
Materials needed include:
Transcripts or GED
Official ACT or SAT scores
$50 application fee
(waived for graduates of Idaho high schools)
For
Transfer
Students:
Must have a 2.0 or better cumulative GPA in fourteen (14) or more credit hours to apply.
Fill out
the application
$50 application fee (waived for graduates of Idaho high schools)
Submit final official transcript(s) from each college attended. If currently attending, in-progress transcripts are accepted, but a final official transcript must be sent upon completion of coursework.
ISU Course Catalog
Blended Early Childhood Education, B.A.
Career Opportunities
A bachelor's degree in early childhood education can lead to careers including:
Adaptive Elementary Education Teacher
Adoptive Agency
Agency Early Childhood Specialist
Early Child Care, Daycare, or Preschool Teacher
Early Childhood Special Needs Consultant
Early Childhood Education Consultant
Private School Elementary Teacher
Public School Elementary Teacher
Job Placement and Salaries
Because early childhood education skills and knowledge are highly desirable in today’s job market, the job outlook includes:
Average salary (according to the government’s Occupational Outlook Handbook) for a kindergarten or elementary school teacher is $63,670 per year.
Average salary (according to the government’s Occupational Outlook Handbook) for a preschool or childcare center director is $54,290 per year.
Contact Us
kentcenter@isu.edu
(208) 282-2783
College of Education921 S 8th Ave, Stop 8059Pocatello, Idaho 83209
Request Information
Provide Feedback
@IdahoStateEd