Link: https://www.isu.edu/spel/educational-leadership-programs/higher-education-administration-concentration-/#d.en.238274
Educational Leadership, Higher Education Administration Concentration, Ed.D.
As a higher education administrator, you will learn how to guide higher education curriculum, faculty research, and student services in an exciting and growing, high-paying field.
Program Information
Do you aspire to a leadership role advancing higher education organizations?
Graduate students in the
Educational Leadership, Higher Education Administration Concentration, Ed.D. program
learn how to
lead coalitions and build relationships that elevate postsecondary educational organizations towards the mission of student development and academic achievement
. This program prepares professional educators for leadership and administration in higher education.
Affordable and Practical
- Idaho State University
is one of the most affordable accredited universities in the country
.
All graduate students are invited to learn more about qualifying for in-state tuition and scholarships!
Anywhere and at Anytime
- The
100% online, asynchronous program
enrolls students nationwide and is tailored to the working professional.
Advance Your Career
- The Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) is the highest university degree awarded in recognition of academic preparation for professional practice in Educational Leadership. While research is an important component of the Doctor of Education program, candidates are provided with coursed and experiences to prepare them to be effective practitioners and leaders in higher education and related fields.
Meet with our Graduate Studies Director
Application, Funding, and Support
Apply
Request More Information
Graduate Application Fee Waiver
Cost
Admissions
Curriculum / Requirements
Career Opportunities
Job Outlook
News
Admission and Program Requirements
Meet the
ISU Graduate School admissions requirements
Hold a master's degree in educational administration or a related field from a regionally accredited institution
Have a minimum of 3.5 GPA at the graduate level
Submit a letter of interest, stating why the applicant is interested in the Educational Leadership, Ed.D. with an emphasis in Higher Education Administration
Submit a current resume, including the names of and contact information for at least 2 professional references
Successful complete an interview with faculty in the Higher Education Administration emphasis
Successful performance on an on-site writing sample completed in conjunction with the interview
The ED.D. in Educational Leadership (Higher Education Administration) requires a minimum of 64 credits:
18 credits in the doctoral core
24 credits in the area of emphasis
3 credits of elective coursework
9 credits of cognate courses (500 level or above)
10 dissertation credits
Continuous Enrollment
Candidates are required to maintain continuous enrollment, including during summers, throughout the Ed.D. program.
ISU Course Catalog
Educational Leadership, Higher Education Administration, Ed.D.
Ed.D. Higher Education Program of Study Template
Career Opportunities
Graduates with a degree in higher education administration could be qualified for the following types of positions:
Higher Education Student Services
Higher Education Student Life
Higher Education Academics Oversight
Higher Education Enrollment Director
Higher Education Admissions
Higher Education Administrator
Higher Education Office of Registrar
Higher Education Recruitment Director
Job Outlook
Because higher education administrators are highly desirable in today’s job market, the job outlook includes:
Average salary (according to the government’s Occupational Outlook Handbook) is $96.910 for postsecondary education administrators.
News
Dr. J. Mark Browning Named 2023 ISU College of Education Kole-McGuffey Award Recipient
Brooke Bolinger
Director of Graduate Studies, College of Education
Office: College of Education 232
(208) 282-4244
brookebolinger@isu.edu
Website
Contact Us
spel@isu.edu
(208) 282-3906
School Psychology and Educational LeadershipGarrison Hall, Room 617921 S. 8th Ave., Stop 8081 Pocatello, Idaho 83209
Request Information
Provide Feedback
@IdahoStateEd