Link: https://www.isu.edu/spel/educational-leadership-programs/instructional-design-and-technology-concentration-/
Educational Leadership, Instructional Design and Technology Concentration, Ed.D.
As an instructional designer, you will create accessible learning and e-learning systems and build effective educational systems using techniques that support student achievement.
Program Information
Graduate students in the
Educational Leadership,
Instructional Design and Technology Concentration, Ed.D. program
learn how to design, develop, and implement learning solutions for schools, higher education institutions, and in government or corporate settings with the goal of supporting and increasing individual success. Candidates take courses emphasizing learning theories, design principles, technology integration, multimedia design and development, as well as delivering instruction in online, in-person, and blended environments.
Affordable and Practical
- Idaho State University
is one of the most affordable accredited universities in the country
.
All instructional design and technology students are invited to learn more about qualifying for in-state tuition!
Anywhere and at Anytime
- The
100% online, asynchronous (no set time) program
enrolls students nationwide and is tailored to the working professional.
Flexible and Accessible -
Students can be enrolled part-time or full-time and can start in the fall, spring, or summer semesters.
Innovative and Experiential
- Students will learn from national leaders in instructional design and technology with the chance to network and be involved with professional organizations in the field such as AECT or ISTE.
Presentation and Publication
- Students will have the opportunity to publish and present their own research or participate with program faculty research on the regional, national, or international levels.
Advance Your Career
- The Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) is the highest university degree awarded in recognition of academic preparation for professional practice in Educational Leadership. While research is an important component of the Doctor of Education program, candidates are provided with coursed and experiences to prepare them to be effective practitioners and leaders in higher education and related fields.
Meet with our Graduate Studies Director
Application, Funding, and Support
Apply
Request More Information
Graduate Application Fee Waiver
Cost
Admissions
Curriculum / Requirements
Career Opportunities
Job Outlook
News
Program and Admission Requirements
The Educational Leadership, Ed.D. in Instructional Design and Technology is designed to strengthen the candidate's knowledge, skills, and dispositions in
Core Standards for Advanced Professionals
and
Idaho State University Department of Educational Leadership Standards for Educational Leaders
. Throughout the program, students learn to combine cutting-edge technologies with contemporary learning theories to improve individual and institutional performance. All coursework involves creating real-world instructional projects and products that students can customize to the educational setting and subject matter of their choice. This approach ensures that the knowledge, skills, and products developed in the program are readily transferable to each student's desired work setting.
Admission
Meet the
ISU Graduate School admissions requirements
Master's degree in related field from a regionally accredited institution
Minimum of 3.5 GPA at the graduate level
Letter of interest, stating why the applicant is interested in the Educational Leadership, Ed.D. with a concentration in Instructional Design and Technology
Current resume with the names and contact information of two persons that can attest to the applicants potential as an educational leader
Successful completion of an interview with faculty in the Instructional Design and Technology concentration
Successful performance on an on-site writing sample completed in conjunction with the interview
The Doctor of Education in Educational Leadership with the concentration in Instructional Design and Technology requires a minimum of 64 credits:
18 credits in the doctoral core
27 credits in the area of concentration, including a minimum of 3 practicum credits
09 credits of cognate courses (500 level or above)
10 dissertation credits
Continuous Enrollment
Once candidates begin the Ed.D. program, they are required to maintain continuous enrollment, including during summers, throughout the program.
ISU Course Catalog
Educational Leadership, Instructional Design and Technology, EdD
Ed.D. Instructional Design and Technology Program of Study Template
Career Opportunties
Graduates with a degree in instructional design and technology could be qualified for the following types of positions:
Higher Education Instructional Designer
K-12 Instructional Design and Technology
Corporate Instructional Designer
Private School Principal
Higher Education Faculty
Curriculum Designer
Higher Education Researcher
Community Schools Consultant
Trainer of Teachers, Administrator
Educational Systems Consultant
Job Placement and Salaries
As a field of study and career, instructional design and technology has a bright outlook. The current outlook includes:
28% increase in annual job growth over the next decade
38th best job in America according to CNN Money
One of the best jobs in higher education according to Inside Higher ED
Average salaries, according to the government’s Occupational Outlook Handbook, for an Instructional Coordinator is $70,560 and the median income Instructional Designers working in the healthcare field is $93,870.
News
An In-Demand Degree: Ph.D. in Instructional Design to Fill Workforce Gap
Idaho State University Professor Named Tech Trends Editor in Chief
ISU Instructional Design and Technology Students and Professors Elected to AECT International Association
IDT Students Recieve Grant to Attend International AECT Conference
IDT Student and Professor Honored with AECT Presidential Awards
John Curry, PhD
Department Chair / Professor
Office: Garrison 623
(208) 282-2585
johncurry@isu.edu
Contact Us
spel@isu.edu
(208) 282-3906
School Psychology and Educational LeadershipGarrison Hall, Room 617921 S. 8th Ave., Stop 8081 Pocatello, Idaho 83209
Request Information
Provide Feedback
@IdahoStateEd