Link: https://www.isu.edu/spel/educational-leadership-programs/p-12-education-administration-concentration-/
Educational Leadership, P-12 Education Administration Concentration, Ed.D
Program Information
Do you have big ideas for improving schools? Do you aspire to build relationships supporting student achievement? Schools need your leadership as a K-12 Superintendent where you will direct programming, hire and supervise staff, manage budgets, and make decisions that guide your academic community to a thriving future. The
Educational Leadership, P-12 Education Administration Concentration, Ed.D program
aligns with the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation standards and meets the requirements that will lead to a K-12 Superintendent endorsement in Idaho.
Affordable and Practical
- Idaho State University
is one of the most affordable accredited universities in the country
.
All instructional design and technology students are invited to learn more about qualifying for in-state tuition!
Anywhere and at Anytime
- The
100% online, asynchronous (no set time) program
enrolls students nationwide and is tailored to the working professional.
Flexible and Accessible -
Students can be enrolled part-time or full-time and can start in the fall, spring, or summer semesters.
Advance Your Career
-
The Doctor of Education (Ed.D.)
is the highest university degree
awarded in recognition of academic preparation for professional practice in Educational Leadership. While research is an important component of the Doctor of Education program, candidates enroll in courses and experiences specifically designed to prepare them to be effective practitioners and leaders in K-12 schools, school districts, and related fields.
Meet with our Graduate Studies Director
Application, Funding, and Support
Apply
Request More Information
Graduate Application Fee Waiver
Cost
Admissions
Curriculum
Career Opportunities
Job Outlook
News
Program and Admission Requirements
The Educational Leadership, Ed.D. is aligned with the requirements for the Education Specialist. The Educational Leadership, P-12 Education Administration Concentration, Ed.D is designed to strengthen a candidate's knowledge, skills, and dispositions in the
Core Standards for Advanced Professionals
and the
Idaho State University Department of Educational Leadership Standards for Educational Leaders,
which parallel the Idaho standards for school superintendents.
Minimum requirements for admission:
Meet the
ISU Graduate School admissions requirements
Hold a Master's degree in educational administration or a related field from a regionally accredited institution
Have a minimum of 3.5 GPA at the graduate level
Submit a letter of interest, stating why the applicant is interested in the Educational Leadership, Ed.D. with an emphasis in P-12 School Administration
Submit a current resume with names and contact information for at least 2 professional references
Successful complete an interview with faculty in the P-12 School Administration emphasis
Successful performance on an on-site writing sample completed in conjunction with the interview
Minimum score at the 40th percentile or the Miller's Analogy Test (MAT) OR minimum score at the 40th percentile on either the Verbal or Analytical Writing section on the Graduate Record Examination (GRE)
The ED.D. in Educational Leadership (P-12 Education Administration) requires a minimum of 61 credits:
18 credits in the doctoral core
24 credits in the area of emphasis, including a minimum of 3 practicum credits
9 credits of cognate courses (500 level or above)
10 dissertation credits
Continuous Enrollment
Candidates are required to maintain continuous enrollment, including during summers, throughout the Ed.D. program.
ISU Course Catalog
Educational Leadership, P-12 Education Administration, EdD
Ed.D. Education Administration Program of Study Template
Career Opportunities
Public School Superintendent
Central Office Administrator
Higher Education Faculty
Post-Secondary Administrator
Higher Education Researcher
Community Schools Consultant
Alternative Schools Administrator
Juvenile Justice Program Administrator
Job Outlook
Because P-12 education administrators and superintendents are highly desirable in today’s job market, the job outlook includes:
Average salary (according to the government’s Occupational Outlook Handbook) is $101,020 for kindergarten through secondary education administrators.
News
Professor Advocates for Local Superintendents, Principals, Teachers, and Students
Dr. Geoff Thomas
Assistant Professor
Office: College of Education 381
(208) 282-4322
geoffreythomas@isu.edu
Contact Us
spel@isu.edu
(208) 282-3906
School Psychology and Educational LeadershipGarrison Hall, Room 617921 S. 8th Ave., Stop 8081 Pocatello, Idaho 83209
Request Information
Provide Feedback
@IdahoStateEd