Link: https://coursecat.isu.edu/graduate/education/schoolpsychologyandeducationalleadership/edsschoolpsychology/
Educational Specialist in School Psychology
Admission Requirements
Applicants for the Educational Specialist in School Psychology degree must meet all college and university requirements for admission and retention. The completion of the Master of Education in School Psychological Examiner Program OR an equivalent School Psychology master’s degree is a pre-requisite for acceptance into the Educational Specialist in School Psychology Program.
General Requirements
The student must complete 33 credits in School Psychology. All post-master’s degree coursework must be taken from members of the Idaho State University graduate faculty or be approved in advance by the graduate faculty. A minimum grade point average of 3.0 (B) is required overall coursework taken in the Ed.S. program. An oral examination covering the specialist paper, portfolio, and/or relevant topics is required.
Time Requirement
All requirements for the Ed.S. must be completed within a period of five years from the date of completion of the first post-master’s degree course to be applied toward the degree.
Specific Requirements: School Psychology Major
The Ed.S. in School Psychology is designed to be consistent with the minimal entry-level requirements in the field of school psychology as presented by the National Association of School Psychologists. A master’s degree as a school psychological examiner or its equivalent is required.
The Ed.S. is viewed as a practitioner’s degree and will focus on applied activities.
Course List
Code
Title
Credits
Course Requirements
SCPY 6615
Advanced Child Psychology
3
SCPY 6616
Psychological Assessment
3
SCPY 6652
Specialist Paper
3
SCPY 6662
Consultation in Schools
3
SCPY 6663
Clinical and Diagnostic Interviewing in Schools
3
SCPY 6664
Neurocognition and Learning
3
SCPY 6665
Clinical School Psychology
3
SCPY 6669
Advanced Practicum in School Psychology
3
SCPY 7759
Ed.S Internship
9
Additional Requirements
Students will also prepare a School Psychology Portfolio. The Portfolio will be presented and defended in the Oral Examination.
Total Credits
33