Link: https://www.isu.edu/spel/educational-leadership-programs/educational-leadership-med/
Educational Leadership, MEd
Gaining a Master of Education in Educational Leadership prepares one to assume an initial leadership role in a post-secondary setting.
Program Information
Become a higher education advocate and prepare to be an effective post-secondary leader by earning a
Master of Education in Educational Leadership, M.Ed
. Candidates will learn how to lead faculty, staff, and students to accomplish academic and student success goals while creating positive interactions among students and other educational constituents. This 30-credit program is designed to provide professionals the skills, knowledge, and preparation for careers as an educational leader.
Affordable and Practical
- Idaho State University
is one of the most affordable accredited universities in the country
.
All graduate students are invited to learn more about qualifying for in-state tuition and scholarships!
Anywhere and at Anytime
- The
100% online, asynchronous program
enrolls students nationwide and is tailored to the working professional.
Meet our graduate studies director
Application, Funding, and Support
Apply
Request More Information
Graduate Application Fee Waiver
Cost
Admissions
Curriculum / Requirements
Career Opportunities
Job Outlook
Admission and Program Requirements
The
Master of Education in Educational Leadership
requires a minimum of 30 credits and is designed to help students develop the knowledge, skills, and dispositions necessary to engage in more effective leadership practice.
Applicants must apply to and meet all criteria for admission:
Meet the
ISU Graduate School admissions requirements
A bachelor's degree from an accredited institution; usually that degree is in an education-related field
One year of professional experience
A letter of interest, stating the applicant's interest in the program
Current resume, including the names of and contact information for at least 2 professional references
A minimum GPA of 3.0 for all upper-division credits taken at the undergraduate level
ISU Course Catalog
Educational Leadership, MEd
Career Opportunities
Graduates with a master's degree in educational leadership could be qualified for the following types of positions:
Department Chair
Student Services Coordinator
Education Policy Consultant
Entry to Doctorate in Higher Education Administration
Job Outlook
Because educational leaders are highly desirable in today’s job market, the job outlook includes:
Average salary (according to the government’s Occupational Outlook Handbook) is $96,910 for postsecondary education administrators.
Brooke Bolinger
Director of Graduate Studies, College of Education
Office: College of Education 232
(208) 282-4244
brookebolinger@isu.edu
Website
Contact Us
spel@isu.edu
(208) 282-3906
School Psychology and Educational LeadershipGarrison Hall, Room 617921 S. 8th Ave., Stop 8081 Pocatello, Idaho 83209
Request Information
Provide Feedback
@IdahoStateEd