Link: https://www.isu.edu/gnecp/
Graduate Nursing Education Certificate
Program Information
Admission Requirements
Application and Selection Process
International Applicants
The GNE Certificate prepares the nurse to provide education in a variety of settings. The program meets the graduate level education course requirement for NLN Certificate in Nursing Education however, other criteria apply.
If you have questions after looking through the School of Nursing website, please see the
GNE Application Tips
or
Graduate Nursing FAQ
for more information
apply for isu school of nursing
Curricula
Nursing Education Certificate Program Curriculum FT
Nursing Education Certificate Program Curriculum PT
All application and admission requirements as posted on the website for the Nursing Education Certificate Program apply. If located outside of Idaho and Utah, some restrictions may apply based on applicant's state of residence.
Program Outcomes
Program Outcomes
At the completion of the GNE Certificate program, the student will demonstrate competence in the aspects of nursing education based upon educational theories and the most current clinical evidence. This includes assessing learning needs, implementing and evaluating education offerings and developer evaluate curricula in clinical and academic settings.
Finances
Cost of Attendance
Costs for tuition and fees at ISU are listed on the
Cost of Attendance
web page on the Finance and Administration website.
Our online Graduate Programs qualify for "Resident Tuition" rates.
Professional Fees
In addition to ISU tuition and fees, a professional fee is assessed for all undergraduate and graduate students in the School of Nursing. Professional fees for the nursing programs are used to support faculty salaries, instruction support services, durable & disposable equipment and supplies, faculty and staff program travel, capital equipment and a reserve for maintenance and purchase of major capital items.
Current Professional Fees
The list of current professional fees for all School of Nursing programs can be found here on the
Professional Fees
page.
Scholarships
Idaho State University Scholarships
The School of Nursing annually awards over $100,000 in scholarships, and the School of Nursing scholarship application is available annually in April in the
Bengal Online Scholarship System (BOSS)
.
Please see the
Scholarship
Office website for more information about scholarship opportunities available through ISU.
Travel Nursing
Nursing Education Scholarship awarded by Travel Nursing career organization.
Amount: $1,000.
Requirements: Accepted to or currently attending a full-time nursing or medical program at an accredited institution.
Travel Nursing Scholarship
.
Nursing Scholarship
CampusRN has
$15,000
in Scholarships Available to Nursing & Allied Health Students.
Career Opportunities
Nurse Careers
Search Thousands of Entry Level Jobs, Externships, & Scholarship Opportunities on CampusRN.
Faculty Openings
Apply for opportunities to teach right here at the Idaho State University School of Nursing.
Nursing ALD
Browse their Free Job Board, Publications and Events
Admission Requirements
The student must apply to and meet all requirements for admission to the Graduate School. In addition to the general requirements of the Graduate School, the following are required:
1. Earned Bachelor of Science degree in Nursing from program accredited by the CCNE or other nationally recognized accrediting body for nursing education.
2. Cumulative GPA of 3.0 or higher in Nursing degree
3. Verification of valid and current unencumbered RN license
The GRE is not required for admission.
A preadmission interview by the School of Nursing Graduate Admissions Committee may be required. If the applicant resides at a distance of 100 miles, an interview by video conference may be arranged.
Admission to the GNE Certificate Program is contingent on sufficient enrollment as defined by the SON. The School of Nursing Graduate Admissions Committee will make the final recommendation regarding admission. This decision will be based on the evaluation of established application and admission requirements.
If located outside of Idaho, some restrictions may apply based on applicant's state of residence.
Online Application
Apply to Idaho State University
Applications submitted after December 1st are accepted on a rolling basis.
Application Status
Fall 2025 Admission
Open
Application Requirements
The student must apply to and meet all requirements for admission to the Graduate School. In addition to the general requirements of the Graduate School, the following are required:
1. Submission of official transcripts from each institution at which they have taken any post-secondary work directly to the Graduate School. Evidence of a completed BS in Nursing or BSN from an accredited nursing program must be listed on official transcripts
2. Submission of professional vitae or resume.
3. Submission of a professional essay (2-3 pages excluding title/references) describing applicants interest in nursing education and vision of how the certification will facilitate career goals.
4. Submission of two professional reference forms attesting to the applicant’s capacity for graduate level study.
If located outside of Idaho, some restrictions may apply based on applicant's state of residence.
Selection Process for the GNE Certificate Program
Application for the GNE Certificate Program will open in September of any academic year. Preference will be given to applications submitted by December 1 of any year. Applications are accepted on a rolling basis until the class is filled. All application and admission requirements as posted on the website for the GNE Certificate program apply. Notification of applicants selected for admission and alternates will begin in January of any year. Admission is contingent on sufficient enrollment as defined by the School of Nursing.
International Applicants
Do you accept International Students into Graduate Nursing Programs?
It depends on the student and on the program. To start, please discuss Idaho State University application and admissions information with the ISU International Programs Office. Their staff will have a better idea how international degrees/credits transfer into ISU and what other admissions requirements you may have to complete for Idaho State University. You should also contact the ISU Graduate School and review their requirements for International Students. Once you have contacted those two offices and found out whether or not you are eligible to apply, contact the Academic Advisor for the School of Nursing to discuss program eligibility
For International Students not located in the United States: Our graduate programs require admitted students to attend program Orientation on our Pocatello Campus and certain programs require clinical and/or practicum hours be completed domestically in the United States. These requirements may prevent International Students from successfully completing our graduate programs.
For more details about the International Programs Office, please see their website at
http://www.isu.edu/ipo/
and contact
ipomail@isu.edu.
For more details from the Graduate School, please contact them at gradadmissions@isu.edu. For more information about the nursing program, please see www.isu.edu/nursing and contact the Academic Advisor.
More Information
Questions related to this degree program should be addressed to:
Kristy Crownhart, DNP,APRN, FNP-C
Interim Director of Graduate Studies in Nursing and Clinical Assistant Professor
Office: Meridian
208-373-1852
crowkri2@isu.edu
Professional Profile
Andrea Lovelace
Program Admissions and Records Specialist for Grad Programs (Application Questions)
Office: Pocatello
208-282-2325
andrealovelace@isu.edu
Graduate Nursing FAQ