Link: https://www.isu.edu/esd/hsem/
Streamlined BS or MS degrees in Homeland Security and Emergency Management with cutting-edge curriculum and affordable in-state tuition. Online classes start every 8 weeks.
Apply to Undergraduate Program
Apply to Graduate Program
Contact Your Advisor
Contact Us For More Information
About Us
Idaho State University's Homeland Security and Emergency Management degree program offers three fully online (asynchronous) degrees including an Associate of Science, Bachelor of Science, and Masters degree with courses starting every 8 weeks.
We’re facing new threats like extreme acts of violence, intense storms, aging infrastructure, and system failures that have a direct impact on life safety. These threats, require new approaches and plans to keep the public safe. It’s essential for those working in homeland security and emergency management positions to leverage new technologies and build relevant core competencies. Investing in yourself to earn an advanced degree and certifications will improve your job prospects and ability to enhance your career and open new doors. Our students explore emerging technology, systems thinking and sensemaking, and policy and crisis leadership. The wide variety of careers with a nexus to homeland security provides flexibility. That means your HSEM degree from ISU is transferable to many different careers without starting over.
Why Choose HSEM?
Whether you’re a professional already working in a related field, a veteran transitioning to a civilian career, an adult learner changing careers, a transferring student who already has a degree or some college courses, or a recent high school graduate planning to start with an associate degree, ISU has a degree option to fit your needs. Working adults and busy students juggling competing demands will appreciate ISU’s HSEM courses that are delivered in a
fully online format.
That means you can conveniently study from any location with internet access regardless of your schedule.
Program Highlights
Many degree options to fit your needs:
Associate of Science
Bachelor of Science
Master of Science
Accelerated BS to MS
Graduate Certificate
Affordable in-state tuition is available nationwide regardless of where you live
Cutting-edge, up-to-date curriculum
Fully online program with a high degree of flexibly
Instructors with real-world experience
Streamlined 8-week courses offered year-round, including in the summer
If you are searching for a meaningful career in public service, Idaho State University’s Homeland Security and Emergency Management Bachelor or Master of Science degree is the right path for you. Join us in preventing and disrupting threats, preparing for natural hazards, and responding to all types of incidents that threaten public safety.
Join Our Program
Apply to join our masters program
Declare your major as HSEM
Contact Krystal Lyman
for more information regarding HSEM programs.
HSEM Links
HSEM Career Grid
HSEM All Degrees Flyer
Summary of All HSEM Courses
Masters Application Steps
Learn More about Homeland Security and Emergency Management