Link: https://www.isu.edu/olp/graduate/human-resource-development/
Human Resource Development
Human resource development is a unique field because every organization needs employees with experience in supporting and developing people, whether that is in an organizational development consultant role or leadership role.
Program Information
The
Master of Science in Human Resource Development (HRD)
program
prepares students for leadership-oriented careers in a wide variety of industries including corporations, nonprofit groups, financial institutions, government, healthcare, K-16 education and beyond. You can graduate from our
fully-online, 30-credit program
at your own pace while gaining valuable expertise in developing, improving, and managing a professional workforce. Our dedicated faculty are here to support, inspire, and empower you throughout your education and beyond.
Anywhere and at Anytime -
100% online, asynchronous (no set time)
program that enrolls any student with a bachelor degree nationwide and is tailored to the working professional.
Students can be enrolled part-time or full-time and can start in the fall, spring, or summer semesters.
All HRD students can learn more about qualifying for scholarships and in-state tuition.
No entry exams
required along with no dissertation work.
Real-World and Experiential -
The program places a heavy focus on enhancing students’ people development skills including coaching, training and development, strategic planning, leadership abilities, and performance improvement that will equip them for careers in a wide variety of industries.
The project-based coursework and research component address workplace problems with innovative, evidence-based HRD solutions.
The course is
delivered "context free" meaning that students can bring any industry into the classes
and apply the concept to their respective industry.
Skills Gained include:
Building Effective and Engaged Teams
Decision Making and Problem Solving
High Impact Leadership
Improving Individual and Group Performance
Strategic Planning
Supervising and Managing People
Talent Development
Meet with our Graduate Studies Director
Application, Funding, and Support
Apply
Graduate Application Fee Waiver
Request More Information
Cost
Admissions
Curriculum
Career Opportunities
Job Outlook
News
Admission
Meet the
ISU Graduate School admissions requirements
Some programs require additional information (e.g., letters of recommendation); please contact the specific department and review individual departmental sections of this catalog for additional requirements
Additional Application Requirements to the M.S. HRD Program include:
Students must submit an
MS HRD Statement of Interest
form
Students must submit a current resume or vita with their application
Graduate Certificates (12 credits)
Career and Technical Education
Human Resource Development
Organizational Leadership
Master's Degrees
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT, MS
Human ReSource Development, CTE Option
Career Opportunities
Graduates with a master’s degree in human resource development work in all career fields and could be qualified for the following types of positions:
Training and Development Director
Supervisor or Manager
Higher Education or K-12 Professional
Organizational Leader or Executive
Trainer and Learning Specialist
Professional Consultant
Organizational Development Professional
Community Relations Coordinator or Manager
Organizational Effectiveness Professional
Retail Management
Career and Technical Education
Job Outlook
Because human resource development skills are highly desirable in today’s job market, the job outlook includes:
Near 100% job placement rate
Average salary (according to the government’s Occupational Outlook Handbook) is $61,570 for a training and development specialist and $120,130 for a training and development manager.
Alumni jobs include:
Idaho National Laboratory
Idaho Central Credit Union
State of Idaho
Boise State University
College of Western Idaho
Business Owner/Entrepreneur
Simplot
ITAFOS Inc.
Bayer
Minidoka Hospital
Burley Fire Department
US Air Force
St. Luke’s Hospital
Idaho Peace Officer Standards and Training
and more!
News
Leading Students Up a Mountain: Tim Davis’s Journey from Classroom Instruction to Nationwide Publication
ISU’s Human Resource Development Program Enrolls Graduate Students From Diverse Fields
ISU Professor Selected to Facilitate Statewide Idaho Nonprofit Leadership Retreat
Tracy Gibson, EdD
Clinical Assistant Professor
Office: Garrison 614
(208) 282-5155
tracygibson@isu.edu
Contact Us
olp@isu.edu
(208) 282-3906
Organizational Learning and Performance Department Garrison Hall, Room 618 921 S. 8th Ave., Stop 8081 Pocatello, Idaho 83209
Request Information
Provide Feedback
@IdahoStateEd