Link: https://www.isu.edu/olp/graduate/instructional-design-and-technology-med/
Instructional Design and Technology, MEd
As an instructional designer you will help individuals learn better and achieve success by creating and supporting accessible, dynamic learning environments that are personalized to how individuals retain information.
Program Information
Graduate students in the
Instructional Design and Technology, MEd Program
learn how to design, develop, and implement learning solutions for K-12 schools, higher education institutions, and in government or corporate settings with the goal of supporting and increasing individual success. Candidates take courses emphasizing learning theories, design principles, technology integration, multimedia design and development, as well as delivering instruction in online, in-person, and blended environments.
Affordable and Practical
- Idaho State University
is one of the most affordable accredited universities in the country
.
All instructional design and technology students are invited to learn more about qualifying for in-state tuition!
Anywhere and at Anytime
- The
100% online, asynchronous program
enrolls students nationwide and is tailored to the working professional.
Flexible and Accessible -
Students can be enrolled part-time or full-time and can start in the fall, spring, or summer semesters.
Innovative and Experiential
- Students will learn from national leaders in instructional design and technology with the chance to network and be involved with professional organizations in the field such as AECT or ISTE.
Presentation and Publication
- Students will have the opportunity to publish and present their own research or participate with program faculty research on the regional, national, or international levels.
Meet with our Graduate Studies Director
Application, Funding, and Support
Apply
Request More Information
Graduate Application Fee Waiver
Cost
In 2023, the ISU Instructional Design and Technology program was ranked as one of the nation's top online master's degrees by
OnlineMastersDegrees.org
! Just 6% of regionally accredited postsecondary institutions earned a ranking position. We were recognized for overall quality, affordability and commitment to student success
.
View all rankings.
Admissions
Curriculum
Career Opportunities
Job Outlook
News
Admission
Meet the
ISU Graduate School admissions requirements
Some programs require additional information (e.g., letters of recommendation); please contact the specific department and review individual departmental sections of this catalog for additional requirements
ISU Course Catalog
Instructional Design and Technology, MEd
Educational Leadership Instructional Design and Technology Emphasis, EdD
Instructional Design, PhD
Career Opportunities
Graduates with a master’s degree in instructional design and technology could be qualified for the following types of positions:
Instruction Development Specialist/Director
Organizational Development professional
Instruction Coordinator
Facility Manager
Software Developer
Curriculum Designer
Consultant
Instruction Technology Specialist
Job Placement and Salaries
As a field of study and career, instructional design and technology has a bright outlook.  The current outlook includes:
28% increase in annual job growth over the next decade
38th best job in America according to CNN Money
One of the best jobs in higher education according to Inside Higher ED
Average salaries, according to the government’s Occupational Outlook Handbook, for an Instructional Coordinator is $70,560 and the median income Instructional Designers working in the healthcare field is $93,870.
News
Idaho State University Professor Named Tech Trends Editor in Chief
ISU Instructional Design and Technology Students and Professors Elected to AECT International Association
ISU Welcomes Distinguished Adjunct Instructional Design and Technology Professor
IDT Students Recieve Grant to Attend International AECT Conference
IDT Student and Professor Honored with AECT Presidential Awards
John Curry, PhD
Department Chair / Professor
Office: Garrison 623
(208) 282-2585
johncurry@isu.edu
Contact Us
olp@isu.edu
(208) 282-3906
Organizational Learning and Performance Department Garrison Hall, Room 618 921 S. 8th Ave., Stop 8081 Pocatello, Idaho 83209
Request Information
Provide Feedback
@IdahoStateEd