Link: https://www.isu.edu/spel/educational-leadership-programs/principal-endorsement-graduate-certificate-/
K-12 Principal Endorsement Graduate Certificate
Prepare to be an effective
school principal with the
K-12 Principal Endorsement Graduate Certificate.
School principals lead faculty, staff, and students to accomplish academic goals and work to create positive change for students, teachers, parents, staff, and the community.
Individuals who currently hold an educationally-related master's degree can complete a sequence of courses to earn a Graduate Certificate (22 credits) and be eligible for an institutional recommendation towards the Idaho K-12 principal endorsement. Please contact our graduate studies director to learn more.
Meet with our Graduate Studies Director
Application, Funding, and Support
Apply
Request More Information
Graduate Application Fee Waiver
Cost
Admissions
Curriculum
Career Opportunities
Required Courses
Admission
Meet the
ISU Graduate School admissions requirements
Some programs require additional information (e.g., letters of recommendation); please contact the specific department and review individual departmental sections of this catalog for additional requirements
This Graduate Certificate requires a minimum of 22 credits:
18 credits in coursework aligned to the Idaho Standards for the Preparation of School Principals
3 credits of internship (a state requirement)
1 credit of case study (taken in the last semester)
ISU Course Catalog
Idaho K-12 Principal Endorsement Graduate Certificate
Career Opportunities
Public School Principal
Private School Principal
State Departments of Education
Alternative School Principal
School Capacity Building
Charter School Principal
Textbook Consultant
Education Policy Consultant
Central Office Administrator
Required Courses
Educational Administration Emphasis Courses (18 credits)
EDLA 6608 Organizational Leadership and Education Administration 3 credits (summer)
EDLA 6609 Principalship 3 credits (fall)
EDLA 6612 School Law, Governance, and Ethics 3 credits (fall)
EDLA 6614 Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment 3 credits (spring)
EDLA 6615 Supervision and Instructional Leadership 3 credits (spring)
EDLA 6642 School Culture and Community Relations 3 credits (summer)
Internship (3 credits)
EDLA 6657 Internship 3 credits (fall, spring, summer)
The candidate may begin the 260-hour internship once he or she completes two of the three following courses: EDLA 6608, EDLA 6612, and/or EDLA 6615. The internship usually takes more than one semester to complete. The internship must include a minimum of 60 hours at each of the elementary, middle or junior high, and high school levels. The candidate must register for 2 credits the first semester of internship and at least 1 credit in each additional semester (including summers) for continuous enrollment until the internship is complete.
Case Study (1 credit)
EDLA 6651 Case Analysis in Education 1 credit (fall, spring, summer)
The candidate must complete all coursework prior to enrolling in the Case Study or must be registered in the last required courses during the semester of the Case Study. The candidate must have completed a significant number of internship hours and turned in the required reports to the Internship Coordinator prior to getting permission from the Internship Coordinator to enroll in the Case Study.
Dr. Geoff Thomas
Assistant Professor
Office: College of Education 381
(208) 282-4322
geoffreythomas@isu.edu
Contact Us
spel@isu.edu
(208) 282-3906
School Psychology and Educational LeadershipGarrison Hall, Room 617921 S. 8th Ave., Stop 8081 Pocatello, Idaho 83209
Request Information
Provide Feedback
@IdahoStateEd