Link: https://isu.edu/hca/
Major in Healthcare Administration
A degree in healthcare administration allows individuals to contribute to and support the desire to help others through the business sector of the healthcare field. As a healthcare administrator, you will be at the forefront of managing some of the most complex institutions in our society including hospitals, extended-care facilities, group practices, insurance companies, state and federal health agencies, educational programs and research facilities.
After over 40 years, the HCA program at ISU remains the only Association of University Programs in Health Administration (AUPHA) certified program in Idaho. Through a mixture of professionally experienced and academically qualified faculty, ISU's HCA program provides students with a robust and experience-driven education on the inner workings of the healthcare industry. Students will be immersed in business practices geared toward the unique aspects of healthcare including, marketing, finance, economics, informatics, human resources and more.
As graduate-level degrees are preferred in the healthcare administration field, ISU's HCA program is designed to prepare students for the pursuit of further education either through our Master of Healthcare Administration (MHA) program or our
Master of Business Administration (MBA)
program.
HCA Snapshot
Our program includes a minor in business, thus enabling graduates to go on and complete a fast-track MHA or MBA graduate degree at ISU in just twelve additional months.
Curriculum
An even combination of classroom-based vs. online courses enhances the availability and flexibility of the program, enabling student to work full or part-time during the program.
Our Faculty
Our passionate, full-time, adjunct, and executive in residence faculty bring students the perspective and wisdom that comes from decades of practical healthcare executive experience.
Alumni & Careers
Where could a degree in healthcare administration take you? Learn more about the salary outlook, potential careers and where our alumni have landed.
Health Care Administration
About
Program Goals/Learning Outcomes
Declaring Your Major
Alumni & Careers
staff_directory_entries
Contact Us
Undergrad: cobadvis@isu.edu
Graduate: cobgrad@isu.edu
(208) 282-2504
Business Administration BA510921 South 8th Avenue 
STOP 8020
Pocatello, Idaho 83209-8109