Link: https://isu.edu/finance/
Major in Finance
Finance is a quantitative discipline, requiring an understanding of accounting and economics. Students entering the finance field, typically have an interest in understanding financial analysis, forecasting and evaluating financial performance. As a major in the finance department, students gain hands-on experience in stocks, financial planning, commercial banking and even entrepreneurship and corporate finance. Overall, graduates gain the invaluable skill of understanding how to manage money in life and business. Students can also easily double major in finance, economics, marketing or management with little to no extra courses. Learn more about the
Flexible BBA Curriculum
.
The College of Business’s finance program puts a heavy emphasis on experiential learning opportunities from investing real money to simulated processes and competitions. Here, students have the chance to immerse their education in hands-on activities in the classroom and within extracurricular involvement.
Finance Snapshot
Our finance majors have numerous opportunities both in the classroom and in extra curricular activities to gain hands-on experience in the field.
Curriculum
Learn more about what a degree in finance entails along with how students can earn a double major in finance, marketing or management with no extra courses.
Our Faculty
The finance department is home to faculty specializing in various areas of the financial field, get to know our professors and their teaching/research interests.
Alumni & Careers
What can you do with a degree in finance? Learn more about the salary outlook, potential careers and where our alumni have landed.
College of Business
Programs
+
Accounting
Economics
Finance
General Business
Health Care Administration
Management
Marketing
Online Completion Degree
Contact Us
(208) 282-3585
Idaho State University College of BusinessBusiness Administration921 South 8th AvePocatello, ID 83209 Stop 8020
Make an Appointment - Undergraduate
Make an Appointment - Graduate