Link: https://www.isu.edu/tes/graduate-programs/master-of-education-in-secondary-education/
Master of Secondary Education, MEd
The
Master of Education in Secondary Education
will provide you with the tools to elevate your teaching career. Our dedicated professors will help you expand your understanding of teaching techniques and educational content. You will graduate prepared to innovate your teaching practice and help your students grow. Join us, and share your love for learning!
M.Ed. Handbook 2022
Application, Funding, and Support
Apply
Request More Information
Graduate Application Fee Waiver
Cost
Admissions
Curriculum
Career Opportunities
Master of Education in Secondary Education
The 30-credit (minimum} non-thesis master's degree in Secondary Education is a combination of pedagogy and content, designed for the Secondary school teacher. This degree will permit the practicing teacher, or certified teacher with past experience teaching, to acquire greater depth in STEM (or single subject mathematics, geology, physical science, or biology}, mathematics education, ESL/TESOL, foreign language, English/language arts, history, history/social science, instructional technology, or another Idaho SBOE-approved Secondary certification or endorsement area.
1. The advanced Secondary Education professional, through the core curriculum and other course work, is expected to meet the core standards for advanced professionals the CAEP standards for accreditation at the advanced level (see http://caepnet.org/standards/standards-advanced-programs).
2. The advanced Secondary Education professional is expected to meet Idaho Core Teacher Standards and National Board for Professional Teaching Standards Core Propositions.
3. The advanced Secondary Education professional is expected to extend her/his subject matter depth in STEM (or single subject, such as mathematics, geology, physical science, or biology), mathematics education, ESL/TESOL, foreign language, English/language arts, history/social science, or another Idaho SBOE-approved Secondary subject matter content certification or endorsement area.
4. The advanced Secondary Education professional is expected to utilize the knowledge of subject area concentration in specific applications and assessments within the educational methods curriculum.
Admission Requirements
The student must apply to and meet all criteria for admission to the
ISU Graduate School
. In addition, applicants for the Master of Education in Secondary Education must meet all college requirements for admission and retention. Those include previous teaching experience or current certification to teach in Idaho or another state.
Graduation Requirements
Admission Requirements, including previous teaching experience or current certification to teach
Education Core (9 credits minimum)
Education Pedagogy (6 credits minimum)
Content Area – Subject(s) approved by advisor  (12 credits; additional credit requirements for STEM)
Capstone  (3 credits)
Secondary Education, MEd
Career Opportunities
Public School Advanced Secondary Educator
Charter School Advanced Secondary Educator
Secondary School Capacity Building
Textbook Consultant
Child Services Consultant
Alternative School Advanced Elementary Educator
Private School Advanced Secondary Educator
Non-Profit Youth Agency
Secondary Education Policy Consultant
Juvenile System Consultant
Contact Us
kentcenter@isu.edu
(208) 282-2783
College of Education921 S 8th Ave, Stop 8059Pocatello, Idaho 83209
Request Information
Provide Feedback
@IdahoStateEd