Link: https://coursecat.isu.edu/graduate/artsandletters/communicationmediaandpersuasion/macommunication/
Master of Arts in Communication
Admission Requirements
To be admitted to classified status, students must apply to, and meet all criteria for, admission to the Graduate School. In addition, students need to score in the 40th percentile or higher in the verbal portion of the GRE.
Program Overview
The Master of Arts in Communication program is a highly flexible 30 credit graduate degree. Students typically take graduate courses in other departments to supplement work in Communication, Media, and Persuasion to build their own cohesive program of study. All students need to work with an advisor to design and approve a program of study and should contact one of the graduate faculty before registering for the first semester. Though it is possible to work at an accelerated pace, the Master of Arts in Communication is designed as a two-year program.
All programs of study will be expected to reflect the following departmental standards:
At least 15 credits must be from 6600-level course work.
At least 15 credits must be from course work in Communication, Media, and Persuasion.
Students choosing the Graduate Degree Paper option must take a minimum of 27 course credits plus a minimum of 3 Graduate Degree Paper (
CMP 6660
) credits.
Students choosing the Thesis option must take a minimum of 24 course credits plus a minimum of 6 Thesis (
CMP 6650
) credits.
Requirements:
Course List
Code
Title
Credits
CMP 6601
Communication and Media Studies (to be taken in a student's first fall semester)
1
3
A minimum of nine CMP graduate seminar credits:
9
CMP 6630
Seminar in Communication (repeatable)
Additional graduate-level CMP courses or other graduate-level courses approved as part of a program of study
2
12-15
Graduate Degree Paper (3 cr) or Thesis (6 cr)
3-6
Total MA program credits:
30
1
To be taken in a student's first fall semester.
2
Or other graduate-level courses approved as part of a program of study.