Link: https://coursecat.isu.edu/graduate/education/teachingandeducationalstudies/medliteracy/
Master of Education in Literacy
Admission Requirements
The student must apply to and meet all criteria for admission to the Graduate School. In addition, candidates for the Master of Education with Literacy Emphasis must meet all college requirements for admission and retention. Individuals applying for admission to the Master of Education with Literacy Emphasis must meet the following admission requirements:
Bachelor's degree from a college or university accredited in the United States or its equivalent from a school in another country.
Grade point average of 3.0 or higher for all upper division credits taken at the undergraduate level.
General Requirements
Candidates must complete a minimum of 30 semester credit hours for the Master of Education with literacy Emphasis. They must complete EDUC 4419 Developmental Literacy or the Idaho Comprehensive Literacy Course or Assessment.
All candidates completing a thesis or case study will orally defend the thesis or case study, but will not sit for written comprehensive examinations. All candidates not completing a thesis or case study will be required to pass both a written comprehensive examination and an oral examination.
Candidates seeking Idaho certification in the area of their training must meet any requirements of the State Board of Education for certification. It is recommended that students pursuing the Master of Education with Literacy Emphasis have professional experience in an educational context.
Course List
Code
Title
Credits
Required Core Professional Studies
EDUC 6601
Research and Writing
3
EDUC 6602
Theories of Learning
3
Specialty Studies
EDUC 5524
Assessing Literacy Abilities
3
EDUC 5526
Remediation of Literacy Problems
3
EDUC 6632
Psychology of Literacy
3
EDUC 6633
Language Literacy and Neurology
3
EDUC 6634
Literacy Multicultural Views
3
EDUC 6635
Clinical Methods in Literacy
3
Integrative Field Research Studies
EDUC 6650
Thesis
6
or
EDUC 6651
Field Project or Case Study in Education
or
EDUC 6652
Field Practicum in Education
Total Credits
30