Link: https://coursecat.isu.edu/graduate/education/teachingandeducationalstudies/medelemedu/
Master of Education in Elementary Education
The 30-credit (minimum) non-thesis master's degree in Elementary Education is a combination of pedagogy and content, designed for the Elementary school teacher. This degree will permit the practicing teacher, or certified teacher with past experience teaching, to acquire greater depth in STEM (or single subject mathematics, geology, physical science, or biology), mathematics education, ESL/TESOL, foreign language, English/language arts, history, history/social science, instructional technology, or another Idaho SBOE-approved Elementary certification or endorsement area.
1. The advanced Elementary Education professional, through the core curriculum and other course work, is expected to meet the core standards for advanced professionals and the CAEP standards for accreditation at the advanced level (see http://caepnet.org/standards/standards-advanced-programs).
2. The advanced Elementary Education professional is expected to meet Idaho Core Teacher Standards and National Board for Professional Teaching Standards Core Propositions.
3. The advanced Elementary Education professional is expected to extend her/his subject matter depth in STEM (or single subject, such as mathematics, geology, physical science, or biology), mathematics education, ESL/TESOL, foreign language, English/language arts, history/social science, or another Idaho SBOE-approved Elementary subject matter content certification or endorsement area.
4. The advanced Elementary Education professional is expected to utilize the knowledge of subject area concentration in specific applications and assessments within the educational methods curriculum.
Admission Requirements
The student must apply to and meet all criteria for admission to the Graduate School. In addition, applicants for the Master of Education in Elementary Education must meet all college requirements for admission and retention. Those include previous teaching experience or current certification to teach in Idaho or another state.
General Requirements
Course List
Code
Title
Credits
Educational Core (minimum 6 credits)
EDUC 6601
Research and Writing
3
EDUC 6602
Theories of Learning
3
Educational Pedagogy (minimum 9 credits)
EDUC 6622
Educational Assessment and Evaluation
3
EDUC 6630
Advanced Elementary Methods
3
EDUC 6641
Advanced Studies in K-12 Curriculum
3
Or another advisor approved EDUC elective.
Capstone Course (3 credits)
EDUC 6670
Seminar in Elementary Education
3
Content Area (12 credits)
Applicants are instructed to see their content area advisor and/or their College of Education advisor for help, as needed, when selecting their content area emphasis. All credits in this area must come 500 level or higher graduate course work and must relate to one subject matter content certification or endorsement area. NOTE: For the STEM content designation to be earned, additional content hours across the STEM disciplines is required. Check with academic advisor for approved STEM courses.
12
Total Credits
30
NOTE: At least 15 credits of 6600-level course work must be completed for this degree program.