Link: https://coursecat.isu.edu/graduate/college-of-health/nutritiondietetics/msnutritiondietetic/
Master of Science in Nutrition/Dietetic Internship
The Master of Science in Nutrition/Dietetic Internship (MS/DI) is a full-time, 16-month, four-semester program (fall, spring, summer, and fall). Students rotate through the program with an established cohort of other MS/DI candidates. During their first fall semester, MS/DI students focus on coursework. In the remaining three semesters, students engage in a combination of practicum rotations and graduate coursework.
The MS/DI is 33 credits with the supervised practice rotations contributing 9 credits. Transfer credits may be awarded for the electives (maximum 8 credits), but not core courses. Advisor approval is required. Students should follow the
graduate school policy
and
form for transfer credit requests
.
The practicum part of the program provides approximately 1,240 hours of "hands-on" educational experience. Interns can expect to spend 40 hours per week in rotations, with additional time required for completion of practicum assignments, coursework, and some travel opportunities. Each intern must complete the DI by the end of the 16 months scheduled over the academic year.
The master's coursework is offered in a hybrid model. Classes are 100% online. Some require students to go to a distance learning classroom; others offer remote access via video conferencing software. In addition, some classes are self-directed, requiring students to work autonomously.
Classwork employs a variety of learning strategies, including case studies, oral presentations, research projects, exams, and other modalities. Culminating activities include:
Capstone Project: A scholarly activity, requiring students to write, present, and defend their project that may include a range of activities such as:
Grant writing and submission
Analysis of a current data set and preparation of a manuscript
Development and execution of a small research study leading to the submission of a presentation abstract as determined appropriate by the advising faculty member and student
Admissions
Applicants must apply through both
DICAS
and the
ISU graduate school
.
New students apply in the spring and are admitted for the fall semester. The program has a total of eighteen seats. Eight seats are available in Pocatello, two in Twin Falls, and eight in Meridian.  The application deadline for both DICAS and the ISU Graduate School is January 20.  Applicants will be notified no later than March 1 and must accept their seats no later than March 15.
Admission Requirements
Program eligibility and admission requirements must be met prior to beginning the Dietetic Internship:
Grade point average of at least a 3.00 on a 4.00 scale
Bachelor of Science in Dietetics
, Family and Consumer Sciences (Home Economics), or Food and Nutrition
Didactic Program in Dietetics requirements completed (as established by
ACEND
®
of the
Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics
)
Verification statement
of DPD coursework
Work experience in food service or health care is desirable, but not mandatory for admission.
How to Apply
The Department of Nutrition and Dietetics website provides more information about the
specific steps of the combined MS in Nutrition/Dietetic Internship application process
.
Course List
Code
Title
Credits
Masters of Science in Nutrition with Dietetic Internship (Public Health Emphasis)
NTD 6609
Seminar for Dietetic Interns (early 8 weeks)
2
NTD 6610
Current Topics in Nutrition
1
NTD 6620
Nutritional Epidemiology
3
NTD 6622
Maternal, Infant, and Child Nutrition
3
NTD 6624
Nutrition and Aging
3
NTD 6640
Research, Writing, and Grantsmanship
3
NTD 6645
Capstone Project I
3
NTD 6650
Capstone Project II
1-3
MPH 6660
Behavior Change Theory and Applications
3
NTD 6655
Dietetic Internship Practicum I
3
NTD 6656
Dietetic Internship Practicum II
3
NTD 6657
Dietetic Internship Pract III
3
Total Credits
31-33