Link: https://www.isu.edu/tes/graduate-programs/master-of-education-in-special-education/
Master of Education in Special Education, MEd
Program Information
Educate to Elevate. Educate to Empower. Educate to Inspire.
The fully online
Master of Education in Special Education
will provide you with the tools to elevate your teaching career. Our dedicated professors will help you expand your understanding of behavior management and instructional techniques for special needs students. This online master’s degree is for K-12 teachers seeking to become special education teachers with our initial certification or enhance their understanding of exceptional education techniques through the use of evidence-based strategies, behavior techniques. The program has an emphasis on behavior management and techniques used in classroom instruction. You will graduate prepared to innovate your teaching practice and help your students grow. Join us, and share your love for learning.
Application, Funding, and Support
Apply
Request More Information
Graduate Application Fee Waiver
Cost
Admissions
Curriculum
Career Opportunities
Admissions
Applicants for the Master of Education in Special Education must apply to and meet all criteria for admission to the ISU
Graduate School
and all college requirements for admission and retention.
Individuals applying for admission to the Master of Education in Special Education must meet the following admission requirements:
Bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited college or university in the United States, or its equivalent from a school in another country.
Grade point average of 3.0 or higher for all upper division credits taken at the undergraduate level.
No GRE required for admission at this time.
Applications for a Fall start will be given priority if submitted by June 15
Applications for a Spring start will be given priority if submitted by November 15 and,
Applications for a Summer start will be given priority if submitted by April 15.
See the ISU Graduate Catalog for information on other policies, including admission, transfer credits, enrollment status, maximum course loads, graduation deadlines, etc.
Special Education, MEd
Career Opportunities
Alternative School Education Educator
Charter School Literacy Specialist
Community College Developmental Assessment
Community Human Exceptionality Consultant
Higher Education Developmental Educator
Instructional Coach
Resource Teacher
Special Education Interventionist
Resource Teacher
Private School Special Educator
Public School Special Education Educator
Contact Us
kentcenter@isu.edu
(208) 282-2783
College of Education921 S 8th Ave, Stop 8059Pocatello, Idaho 83209
Request Information
Provide Feedback
@IdahoStateEd