Link: https://coursecat.isu.edu/graduate/college-of-health/nutritiondietetics/msnutrition/
Master of Science in Nutrition
The Master of Science (MS; stand-alone) is not accepting applications at this time.
The Master of Science (MS; stand-alone) in Nutrition is 30 credits with eight (8) credits of approved electives to meet individual areas of emphasis in dietetics practice. This flexible program may be completed either as a part-time of full-time student. Depending on your pace, it may take you between three semesters to three years to complete the program.
The master's coursework is offered in a hybrid model. Classes are 100% online. Some require students to go to a distance learning classroom; others offer remote access via video conferencing software. In addition, some classes are self-directed, requiring students to work autonomously.
Classwork employs a variety of learning strategies, including case studies, oral presentations, research projects, exams, and other modalities. Culminating activities include:
Capstone Project: A scholarly activity, requiring students to write, present, and defend their project that may include a range of activities such as:
Grant writing and submission
Analysis of a current data set and preparation of a manuscript
Development and execution of a small research study leading to submission of a presentation abstract as determined appropriate by the advising faculty member and student
Optional Thesis: Students may choose to write a thesis in place of the capstone. Students who opt for a thesis project may find it beneficial to increase the thesis credits and decrease the elective courses.
Admissions
Apply for the Master of Science in Nutrition through the
Idaho State University Graduate School
application.
On the
graduate school application
, please indicate your program intent to pursue a Master of Science in Nutrition. Once it is determined that you meet the general requirements for graduate studies at ISU, your application will be forwarded to Department of Nutrition and Dietetics for review and admission decision into this program.
The
combined MS in Nutrition/Dietetic Internship program
employs a different admission process.
Admission Requirements
In addition to meeting the general requirements for the ISU Graduate School, admission requirements for the MS in Nutrition, include:
BS in Dietetics, Food and Nutrition, or other related disciplines from a college or university regionally accredited in the United States or its equivalent from a school in another country
Resume or  Curriculum Vitae (CV)
GPA—at least a cumulative of 3.0
Three letters of recommendation from individuals who are familiar with your academic or employment performance (these are submitted electronically through the
online graduate school application
)
Personal statement on why you want to pursue the MS degree (maximum 750 words)
How to Apply
The Department of Nutrition and Dietetics website provides more information about the
specific steps of the MS in Nutrition stand-alone application process
.
Transfer credits may be awarded for the electives (maximum 8 credits), but not core courses. Advisor approval is required. Students should follow the
graduate school policy
and
form for transfer credit requests
.
Course List
Code
Title
Credits
Master of Science in Nutrition (Public Health Emphasis)
NTD 6610
Current Topics in Nutrition
1
NTD 6620
Nutritional Epidemiology
3
NTD 6622
Maternal, Infant, and Child Nutrition
3
NTD 6624
Nutrition and Aging
3
NTD 6640
Research, Writing, and Grantsmanship
3
NTD 6645
Capstone Project I
3
MPH 6620
Health Program Planning and Evaluation
3
MPH 6660
Behavior Change Theory and Applications
3
Approved Electives
8
Total Credits
30
Course List
Code
Title
Credits
Possible Electives
DHS 5501
Mindfulness in Health Science
2
DHS 5502
Survey of Aging Issues
3
DHS 5503
Interprof Sys Geri Manage
3
DHS 5504
Geri Interprof Internship
2
DHS 5506
The Mindful Practitioner
2
DHS 5599
Experimental Course (Mindful Self-Compassion)
2
HE 6623
Curriculum and Supervision
3
HE 6639
Teaching Strategies in Health
3
MPH 6601
Applications in Epidemiology
3
MPH 6604
Social and Cultural Perspectives in Public Health
3
MPH 6605
Leadership Policy and Administration
3
MPH 6606
Environmental and Occupational Health
3*
NTD 5539
Sports Nutrition
3*
NTD 5557
Experimental Foods
3*
NTD 5561
Nutritional Biochemistry I
3*
NTD 5581
Special Problems in Nutrition and Dietetics
1-2
NTD 5585
Nutritional Biochemistry II
3*
NTD 6650
Capstone Project II (Capstone II or Thesis II)
1-3
NTD 6651
Thesis
3-6
PSYC 5531
Behavioral Neuroscience I
3
*
Courses cannot be taken for graduate credit if the student has previously taken them at the undergraduate level.
**
Students who opt for a thesis project may find it beneficial to increase the thesis credits and decrease the elective courses. Please discuss this option with your faculty advisor