Link: https://www.isu.edu/mhe/
Master of Health Education
The master's degree in Health Education is a 30-credit degree designed to educate students in strategies in health promotion/disease prevention. Coursework emphasizes the acquisition of skills to assess, plan, implement, and evaluate health education programs in the school, community, or worksite setting. This master's degree can be completed in as little as a year and helps prepare and advance health professionals. Both thesis and non-thesis options are available.
Why Choose a Master of Health Education at ISU?
Online and some in-person class options
Faculty with years of practical health education experience and insight to the classroom learning environment
Non-cohort program allows students to pace degree completion on a full-time or a part-time basis
Low student-to-teacher ratio
30 credit hours
Can be completed in 12 months
Opportunity to receive Graduate Teaching Assistantships.
Graduate Teaching Assistantship Application 2024-2025
Curriculum
Admissions
MHE Student Resources
Alumni
MHE Curriculum
Course Requirements
Course
Course Description
Credits
HE 6605 or MPH 6605
Leadership Policy and Administration
3
HE 6620 or MPH 6620
Health Program Planning and Evaluation
3
HE 6623 or MPH 6604
Curriculum and Supervision or Social Cultural Perspectives
3
HE 6639
Teaching Strategies in Health
3
HE 6640 or MPH 6640
Research and Writing in Health
3
HE 6660 or MPH 6660
Behavior Change Theory and Applications
3
Select either the Thesis or Non-Thesis option:
Course
Course Description
Credit
HE 6650
Thesis
1-6
Approved Electives
6
OR
HE 6651
Masters Project in Health Education
1-6
Approved Electives
6
Total Hours
30
MHE Admission Requirements
The Program Director will review all Master of Health Education applications. Applicants who do not completely satisfy requirements are referred to the Health Education Admissions Committee (MHE Director and MHE graduate faculty) to determine admission. The Program Director will admit prospective students who satisfy the MHE program and Graduate School admission requirements.
For classified admission into the program, applicants must satisfy the following criteria:
Meet all requirements of the Graduate School
Submit all previous college transcripts and have an accumulative undergraduate grade point average of at least 3.0 in upper division courses.  An applicant who currently holds a graduate degree must submit their transcripts, but the undergraduate GPA will not apply.
Submit two letters of recommendation from individuals (non-relatives) who are familiar with their abilities.  The letters will be uploaded to your graduate application portal
Applicants must upload a typed essay (one to two pages, single spaced) to the graduate application portal describing their interest in pursuing the MHE degree and their vision of how it will facilitate their career goals
Applicants currently holding degrees at the doctoral level from an accredited institution will not be required to submit GRE general test scores (this includes professional doctoral degrees such as PharmD, Juris Doctorate, Medical Doctor, Doctor of Osteopathy, Doctor of Veterinary Medicine).
All others holding degrees at the baccalaureate and master's level must submit GRE general test scores.
MHE Student Resources
HE Topic Approval Form
MHE Project & Thesis Requirements, Fall 2011