Link: https://coursecat.isu.edu/graduate/scienceengineering/mechanicalengineering/msmechanicalengineering/
Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering
Admission Requirements
All applicants for the M.S. in ME program must have a Bachelor of Science degree in engineering, physical sciences, mathematics or a closely related field, and must meet Idaho State University Graduate School M.S. admission requirements. In addition, official Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) score reports are required for all applicants, except those with a B.S. degree in an Engineering discipline from ISU, with a score equal or above the 65th percentile on the Quantitative Reasoning area being required for admission.
General Requirements
With the assistance of the Mechanical Engineering faculty, the student shall select an initial advisor during the first semester of residence to help in planning a program of studies and research. The student must also complete a Plan of Study and form a complete advisory committee by the time six credits of course work have been completed.
30 credit hours are required to complete the M.S. degree (at least 50% of the credits should be at the 6600 level). Approximately half of the credits are engineering and technical electives, subject to the approval of the student’s advisory committee. The Thesis or Special Project should consist of study and research that complements the course work selected.
Required Courses (30 credits)
Course List
Code
Title
Credits
Select at least 3 credits (1 course) of advanced mathematics from the following list:
3
ME 5521
Engineering Modeling, Analysis, and Simulation
MATH 5506
Advanced Linear Algebra
MATH 5542
Introduction to Numerical Analysis II
MATH 5565
Partial Differential Equations
Select at least 9 credits (3 courses) from the following list:
9
ME 6607
Advanced Thermodynamics
ME 6635
Transport Phenomena
ME 6676
Conduction Heat Transfer
ME 6640
Advanced Vibrations
MCE 6643
Advanced Measurement Methods
ME 6644
Advanced Kinematic Design
ME 6648
Robotic Grasping/Manipulation
ME/CE 6665
Finite Element Methods
Additional coursework, up to 12 credits (4 courses) of approved electives
1
12
Thesis
6
ME 6650
Thesis
OR
One additional elective course
AND
ME 6660
Special Project
2
Total Credits
30
1
Approved by Major Advisor.
2
Students desiring to do the non-thesis option must have a minimum of two years of industry experience, or a previous graduate degree (MS or PhD) in an engineering discipline that included the completion of a thesis or dissertation. In place of the 6-credit thesis, the non-thesis option consists of a 3-credit Special Project in addition to a 3-credit course. At the completion of the Special Project, the student will be required to do an oral presentation/defense of the Project.
Doctor of Philosophy in Engineering and Applied Science
A doctoral program in Engineering and Applied Science, administered through the College of Science and Engineering, is available to engineering students. The complete program description is provided in the
Engineering and Applied Science
section of the Graduate Catalog.