Link: https://www.isu.edu/nursing/programs/master-of-science-in-nursing-msn/
Master's of Science in Nursing (M.S.N.), Education Program
Program Information
Admission Requirements
Application and Selection Process
International Applicants
The Master's of Science in Nursing, Nursing Education option prepares the graduate for a position in nursing education as well as the educator role in varied settings such as hospitals, health department, clinics, among other practice areas. Students are prepared as nurse educators and leaders to respond to current and projected changes in the health care system. Students are required to complete 43 credit hours which includes 336 lab/practicum hours in varied settings.
The Master's of Science in Nursing degree, Nursing Education option program courses are delivered online.
Master's of Science in Nursing, Nursing Education Full Time
Master's of Science in Nursing, Nursing Education Part Time
If you have questions after looking through the School of Nursing website, please see
MSN Application Tips
or the
Graduate Nursing FAQ
for more information
APPly for isu school of nursing
Goal and Outcomes
Goal
The primary goal of the Master’s in Nursing Education program is to prepare experts in nursing education principles and practices with an emphasis on leadership, innovation and evidence based applications.
Program Outcomes
Use an evidence based approach that critically applies evidence and integrates theory and research findings to enhance nursing practice.
Assume a leadership role in managing human, fiscal, and physical health care resources demonstrating application of health care policy, organization, and financing of health care.
Understand principles, personal values and beliefs that provide a framework for nursing practice.
Analyze systems of health care and determine how the values underpinning them influence care delivered.
Understand the nursing profession, advanced nursing roles, the requirements for, and regulation of these roles, and integrate the advanced nursing role into the graduate’s professional practice.
Understand, appreciate and value diversity in health and illness and assure the delivery of appropriate patient-centered care.
Partner with individuals, groups and communities to achieve and maintain an optimal level of health through an interdisciplinary process.
Finances
Cost of Attendance
Costs for tuition and fees at ISU are listed on the
Cost of Attendance
web page on the Finance and Administration website.
Our online Graduate Programs qualify for "Resident Tuition" rates.
Professional Fees
In addition to ISU tuition and fees, a professional fee is assessed for all undergraduate and graduate students in the School of Nursing. Professional fees for the nursing programs are used to support faculty salaries, instruction support services, durable & disposable equipment and supplies, faculty and staff program travel, capital equipment and a reserve for maintenance and purchase of major capital items.
Current Professional Fees
The list of current professional fees for all School of Nursing programs can be found here on the
Professional Fees
page.
Scholarships
Idaho State University Scholarships
The School of Nursing annually awards over $100,000 in scholarships, and the School of Nursing scholarship application is available annually in April in the
Bengal Online Scholarship System (BOSS)
.
Please see the
Scholarship
Office website for more information about scholarship opportunities available through ISU.
Travel Nursing
Nursing Education Scholarship awarded by Travel Nursing career organization.
Amount: $1,000.
Requirements: Accepted to or currently attending a full-time nursing or medical program at an accredited institution.
Travel Nursing Scholarship
.
Nursing Scholarship
CampusRN has
$15,000
in Scholarships Available to Nursing & Allied Health Students.
Career Opportunities
Nurse Careers
Search Thousands of Entry Level Jobs, Externships, & Scholarship Opportunities on CampusRN.
Faculty Openings
Apply for opportunities to teach right here at the Idaho State University School of Nursing.
Nursing ALD
Browse their Free Job Board, Publications and Events
Admission Requirements
The student must apply to and meet all requirements for admission to the Graduate School. In addition to the general requirements of the Graduate School, the following are required:
Earned Bachelor of Science degree (BS in Nursing or BSN) from program accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE) or other nationally recognized accrediting body for nursing education.
Cumulative GPA of 3.0 or higher (calculated based on previous 60 credits of undergraduate course work).
English Proficiency Exams: The SON MS Program adheres to the
ISU Graduate School policy
for those students who have not graduated from an accredited college or university in the United States (at the undergraduate and/or graduate level) and whose native language is not English.
Completed application, preferably before January 15th. Applications for Fall Admission are reviewed in the order they are received and accepted on a rolling basis until class filled.
Verification of valid and current unencumbered Registered Nursing license.
Mandatory attendance at the orientation for the M.S. in Nursing program to be held on the ISU Pocatello campus in August of the year of admission.
The GRE is not required for admission.
Admission to the Education option is dependent on a full cohort as determined by the School of Nursing. If located outside of Idaho and Utah, some restrictions may apply based on applicant's state of residence.
Online Application
Apply to Idaho State University
Applications open in September of any given year for Fall Admission and applicants are encouraged to apply well before January 15th.
We will begin evaluating applications in January and applicants will be notified of admission decisions by the end of May 2024.
Application Status
Fall 2025
Open
Application Requirements
The student must apply to and meet all requirements for admission to the Graduate School. In addition to the general requirements of the Graduate School, the following are required:
Submission of official transcripts from each institution at which they have taken any post-secondary work directly to the Graduate School. Evidence of a completed BS in Nursing or BSN from an accredited nursing program must be listed in official transcripts.
Submission of a professional essay (2-3 pages) is required describing applicant's interest in pursuing the Master of Science degree and vision of how this preparation will facilitate career goals. Describe experiences which have influenced your decision to seek a Master's in Nursing degree in the chosen option. Present one or more strengths that will support your success in the graduate program. Explain how completing the Master's degree in Nursing Education will contribute to your professional goals. Describe the potential impact your professional goals will have on the advancement of the nursing profession.
Three professional reference forms attesting to the applicant's capacity and potential for Master's study. (It is recommended two references be from academic sources and one from a recent employer).
Submission of professional vitae or resume.
If located outside of Idaho and Utah, some restrictions may apply based on applicant's state of residence.
Selection Process for the M.S. in Nursing Education Program
Application for the Master's of Science in Nursing Education program will open in September of any academic year for a Fall Semester start date. Applications are accepted on a rolling basis until class filled. All application and admission requirements as posted on the website for the M.S. degree program apply. Admission to the Education option is dependent on a full cohort as determined by the School of Nursing. Notification of successful applicants for admission and alternates will be announced in May of any year.
International Applicants
Do you accept International Students into Graduate Nursing Programs?
It depends on the student and on the program. To start, please discuss Idaho State University application and admissions information with the ISU International Programs Office. Their staff will have a better idea how international degrees/credits transfer into ISU and what other admissions requirements you may have to complete for Idaho State University. You should also contact the ISU Graduate School and review their requirements for International Students. Once you have contacted those two offices and found out whether or not you are eligible to apply, contact the Academic Advisor for the School of Nursing to discuss program eligibility
For International Students not located in the United States: Our graduate programs require admitted students to attend program Orientation on our Pocatello Campus and certain programs require clinical and/or practicum hours be completed domestically in the United States. These requirements may prevent International Students from successfully completing our graduate programs.
For more details about the International Programs Office, please see their website at
http://www.isu.edu/ipo/
and contact
ipomail@isu.edu.
For more details from the Graduate School, please contact them at gradadmissions@isu.edu. For more information about the nursing program, please see www.isu.edu/nursing and contact the Academic Advisor.
More Information
Questions related to this degree program should be addressed to:
Kristy Crownhart, DNP,APRN, FNP-C
Interim Director of Graduate Studies in Nursing and Clinical Assistant Professor
Office: Meridian
208-373-1852
crowkri2@isu.edu
Professional Profile
Andrea Lovelace
Program Admissions and Records Specialist for Grad Programs (Application Questions)
Office: Pocatello
208-282-2325
andrealovelace@isu.edu
Graduate Nursing FAQ