Link: https://www.isu.edu/polisci/graduate-programs/master-of-public-administration/
Master of Public Administration (M.P.A.)
Master of Public Administration (MPA) at
Idaho State University
Request Information (
markmcbeth@isu.edu
)
Request Information Form
To Apply to the MPA Program:
1-Talk to the MPA Director, Dr. Mark McBeth at
markmcbeth@isu.edu
2-Apply to the Graduate School (
https://www.isu.edu/apply/graduate/
) which uses College Net.
3-On College Net, you will be asked to provide the email addresses of three reference writers.
4-On College Net, you will be asked to submit a one page goal statement of why you want to join the MPA program.
5-On College Net, you will be asked to submit your official academic transcripts.
6-GRE scores are
Not
required.
“I chose the MPA program at ISU in order to get a better understanding of State and Local Government. The program design allowed me to pursue my education while continuing to work….The entire program was a great experience. The professors were excellent and provided a great environment that facilitated in-depth discussion and learning. I developed relationships that continue today.”
-Ryan O’Hearn (MPA, 2010). Fire Chief, City of Pocatello.
What do our alumni do with their degree?
M.P.A. FACEBOOK PAGE
M.P.A. ALUMNI STORIES
The Degree
Graduate Catalog
Financial Aid and Scholarships
MPA students are eligible to apply for competitive Graduate Assistantships. The Mark K. McBeth Scholarship is awarded each year to a MPA student. Other scholarships for graduate students can be found on ISU Scholarship page (
https://www.isu.edu/scholarships/
).  Graduate students are eligible for student loans, see the ISU Financial Aid Office (
https://www.isu.edu/financialaid/
)
Social Media
Facebook
LinkedIn
Creating Tomorrow’s Leaders for Idaho Communities
Welcome to the MPA Program at Idaho State University! Our program is dedicated to shaping the next generation of leaders in public administration, empowering them with the skills and knowledge needed to make a positive impact on Idaho communities. Here are some key features of our program:
Quick Facts:
Extensive alumni network across southeast Idaho and the entire state of Idaho.
Mentoring and networking opportunities available for current students through our alumni network.
Career Advancement:
Our program focuses on the theory and practice of public administration, providing students with a comprehensive understanding of the field.
Internship opportunities allow students to gain valuable career experience while still in the program.
Mid-career students can enhance their skills and capabilities to advance in their careers.
Distance Learning:
We understand that not all students can be physically present in Pocatello, which is why we offer a full distance learning option.
Our synchronous online classes enable students from anywhere in Idaho or the world to join the MPA program.
Faculty Expertise:
Our faculty members bring a wealth of expertise in both theoretical knowledge and practical application.
Students benefit from the guidance and mentorship of experienced professionals in the field of public administration.
Join us at the MPA Program at Idaho State University and be part of a community dedicated to creating tomorrow's leaders for Idaho communities. Take the first step towards a rewarding career in public service.
Quick Facts
The MPA program has a large alumni network across southeast Idaho and Idaho.
Opportunities for alumni mentoring and networking for current students.
Career Path Internships for students, get career experience while in the program.
Distance learning (synchronous online option) allows students from throughout Idaho and elsewhere to join the MPA program.
Faculty expertise in both theory and application.
The Master in Public Administration degree is an inter-university cooperative graduate program offered jointly by Boise State University, Idaho State University, and the University of Idaho. The purpose of the program is to provide present and prospective public administrators with the basic intellectual preparation necessary to understand and to adjust to a changing and challenging environment, through an introduction to the theories and practices of administration, management and social science research as these relate to effective performance in public organizations.
All students must take 24 credit hours of core area courses and 12 credits in a variety of specialized areas. Some of the topics included are State, Local, and Non-Profit Administration, Environmental Administration, and Public Health Administration.
Graduates will develop an appreciation of serving the public interest.
Graduates will respect and study the law and the Constitution.
Graduates will demonstrate personal integrity.
Graduates will promote ethical organizations.
Graduates will develop distinctive public administration skills.
Graduates will strive for professional excellence and updating of skills throughout their professional careers.
Please review the complete program description of the
Masters of Public Administration
at Idaho State University and the
M.P.A. Graduate Program Handbook
.
An advisory committee has been created to assist students in developing a curriculum that reflects their individual needs. The program phone number is (208) 282-2211, Stop 8073.
For information on the MPA program contact faculty member, Dr. Mark McBeth at
mcbemark@isu.edu
.
Please visit the
political science section
of the Idaho State graduate catalog for more specific information on teachers, classes, and program requirements.
MPA Voices
Hear what our graduates have to say about their experience in our program.
ISU MPA: Preparing Students for a Public Service Career
In this episode of ISU Impact: Engaging with the College of Arts and Letters, Dean Kandi Turley Ames talks with Dr. Mark McBeth, Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science, and alumna Whitney Fenwick about the Master of Public Administration degree option.
Read more >>