Link: https://www.isu.edu/mat/
Master of Arts in Teaching
Program Information
The
Master of Arts in Teaching
program will allow you to earn your teaching degree and Idaho teaching certification in as little as four semesters online and on your own time. Our dedicated professors will provide you with flexible instruction in teaching techniques and educational content. You will graduate prepared to educate and inspire your students. Join us, and share your love for learning!
Meet with our Graduate Studies Director
Application, Funding, and Support
Apply
Request More Information
Graduate Application Fee Waiver
Cost
Program Outcomes
The Teacher Candidate applies evidence-based professional and pedagogical knowledge that supports students’ social, emotional, behavioral and academic development.
The Teacher Candidate has a deep and flexible understanding of content that supports students’ social, emotional, behavioral  and academic development in authentic learning environments.
The Teacher Candidate strategically uses assessment for instructional planning and evidence-based instructional practices to make goal-directed decisions that support students’ social, emotional, behavioral and academic development.
The Teacher Candidate displays the habits of professional action and moral commitments that support students’ social, emotional, behavioral and academic development.
Welcome!
The MAT program was originally designed to support the growing need for qualified teachers for Idaho schools, and it has grown to support the need for certified teachers all over the world. Through the MAT program, candidates can receive both a Masters Degree and Idaho Teacher Certification in as little as four semesters.
Program Options
Two different options are available leading to Idaho Teacher Certification, both requiring a bachelor's degree for admission. Neither requires any previous teaching experience.
Alternate Authorization:
This option is for teachers in the state of Idaho who have been hired without certification (emergency hires/alternative authorization).
This option is completed within 3 years.
Traditional Option:
This option is for candidates with a bachelor's degree who would like to pursue Idaho teacher certification. This option can be completed in four semesters.
From anywhere
The Master’s program coursework is fully online (both asynchronous and synchronous courses) with two different options available leading to Idaho teacher certification. Required field experience and student teaching must be done in a face-to-face classroom setting but can be done in your hometown.
Want to know more?
MAT Curriculum
Meet with an advisor
MAT PROGRAM HANDBOOK
Contact Us
kentcenter@isu.edu
(208) 282-2783
College of Education921 S 8th Ave, Stop 8059Pocatello, Idaho 83209
Request Information
Provide Feedback
@IdahoStateEd