Link: https://coursecat.isu.edu/graduate/scienceengineering/nuclearengineering/msnuclearscience/
Master of Science in Nuclear Science and Engineering
Admission Requirements
The student must apply to and meet all criteria for admission to the Graduate School and hold a BS degree in a physical science or engineering.
General Requirements
The basic program requirements are 32 credits: 24 credits of course work (of which 9 credits must be at the 6600-course level), 6 credits of thesis research, and 2 credits of seminar. Students who are prepared with a B.S. degree in nuclear engineering will have a different course schedule than those with B.S. degrees in other engineering fields or a physical science. Therefore, the student’s program will be determined in consultation with the student’s advisor and committee to meet their needs. An oral examination in defense of the thesis is required for the thesis option.
Thesis Option in Engineering Master’s Programs
All students entering with less than two years of industrial experience as determined by Engineering are required to complete six credits of thesis in their related field. Students who are planning to continue their education beyond the master's level are strongly encouraged to choose this option. After the completion of the course work and the thesis, an oral defense of the thesis will be required. No more than six credits of Thesis (ENGR 6650 Thesis, 1-9 credits) will be allowed on the student’s final Program of Study.
Non-Thesis Option in Engineering Master’s Programs
All students entering with a minimum of two years industrial experience in the related area as determined by Engineering are eligible to choose this option. In the non-thesis program, students will be required to take an additional 3-credit course to complete a 3-credit Special Project (
ENGR 6660
Special Project
, 1-9 credits) in the related field and submit a written report. After completion of the coursework and the Special Project, students are required to take a two-hour oral exam on their Special Project and other courses in the MS program. No more than three credits of Special Project will be allowed on the student’s final Program of Study.