Link: https://www.isu.edu/tes/graduate-programs/master-of-science-in-deaf-education/
Master of Science in Deaf Education
Program Information
Idaho's only
Master of Science in Deaf Education
is a (32-41 credit) program designed to provide candidates with research based pedagogy and methodology to become change agents providing instruction to Deaf/hard-of-hearing students in diverse academic settings. This program is in alignment with Idaho State University’s vision to ignite a passion for knowledge and discovery to create a better future for our students and the world. Two degree tracks are available -degree seeking only or teacher certification preparation.
All courses are available 100% online (blended synchronous and asynchronous formats)
Meet with our Graduate Studies Director
Application, Funding, and Support
Apply
Request More Information
Graduate Application Fee Waiver
Cost
Admissions
Curriculum
Career Opportunities
Outcomes/Mission
News
Admission
Meet the
ISU Graduate School admissions requirements
Bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited college or university in the United States or its equivalent from a school in another country.
Some programs require additional information (e.g., letters of recommendation); please contact the specific department and review individual departmental sections of this catalog for additional requirements.
The mission of the Deaf Education program is to prepare individuals to become certified teachers of the Deaf/hard-of-hearing, preference is given to individuals who have an undergraduate elementary, secondary, or special education major and who have American Sign Language skills. However, individuals without this background should consider applying after consulting their respective state department of education for details regarding teacher of the Deaf certification/licensure.
Degree Tracks
Track 1: Degree Seeking Only
This track provides in-depth courses specific to the area of concentration for professionals who already have teaching certification; seek to enhance their knowledge.
Track 2: Teacher Certification Preparation
This option provides courses to prepare the candidate to qualify for teacher certification in the state of Idaho. Includes a full-time 12-week student teaching placement.
Master of Science in Deaf Education, MS
Career Opportunities
Public School Deaf Educator
Deaf and Blind School Deaf Educator
School Capacity Building
Deaf and Hard of Hearing Itinerant Teacher
Child Services Consultant
Private School Deaf Educator
Alternative School Advanced Elementary Educator
Charter School Deaf Educator
Deaf Education Policy Consultant
Alternative School Deaf Educator
Mission
The Department of Teaching and Educational Studies seeks to graduate proficient and reflective educators who understand learners, content, and pedagogy.
Outcomes
Candidate displays the dispositions of professional action and moral commitments that support Deaf/hard of hearing students’ social, emotional, language, and academic development.
Candidate applies evidence-based professional and pedagogical knowledge that supports Deaf/hard of hearing students’ signed language development.
Candidate applies evidence-based professional and pedagogical knowledge that supports Deaf/hard of hearing students’ literacy development.
Candidate applies evidence-based professional and pedagogical knowledge that supports Deaf/hard of hearing students’ spoken language development (Deaf-centric approach).
Goals
Provide equitable employment opportunities for all candidates in the Masters of Deaf Education program by providing comprehensive research based training with emphasis on multilingual and bimodal teaching strategies.
News
Deaf Education Program Sponsors Walk4ASL Statewide Events
Jill Radford, EdS
Clinical Instructor of Deaf Education
Office: College of Education 226 C
(208) 904-3552
jillradford@isu.edu
Contact Us
kentcenter@isu.edu
(208) 282-2783
College of Education921 S 8th Ave, Stop 8059Pocatello, Idaho 83209
Request Information
Provide Feedback
@IdahoStateEd