Link: https://coursecat.isu.edu/graduate/scienceengineering/mathematics/msmath/
Master of Science in Mathematics
Admission Requirements
For admission to the M.S. program in Mathematics, the applicant must meet all admission requirements of the Idaho State University Graduate School as well as the following admission requirements of the department:
completion of a bachelor's degree with strong mathematical component before the start of the initial enrollment;
at least 3.0 grade point average (GPA) out of 4.0 in upper-division undergraduate course work in mathematics;
at least 50
th
percentile on the quantitative reasoning section of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) General Test; and
completion of the course work in modern algebra, differential equations, and analysis courses beyond the calculus sequence.
In addition to completing the application procedure specified by the Graduate School, an applicant to the M.S. program in Mathematics must:
submit a letter addressing the applicant's reasons for pursuing the M.S. degree in Mathematics directly to the Idaho State University Graduate School;
arrange for at least three confidential letters of recommendation, to be submitted directly to the Idaho State University Graduate School, and addressing the applicant's background and potential for success in the study of advanced mathematics.
An applicant who does not fully meet the departmental requirements will be considered for admission on an individual basis and required to make up the deficiency at Idaho State University in case of admission.
An applicant who wishes to be considered for financial assistance must complete a Financial Assistance Application form and submit the completed Financial Assistance Application form directly to the Idaho State University Graduate School.
Applications must be received by April 1
st
to be given full consideration.
General Requirements
The Master of Science program in Mathematics provides thesis and non-thesis options. Students choosing either option must take 15 credits in mathematics at the 6600-level, including two full-year sequences. Of the remaining 15 graduate credits required for the degree, at least 9 must be in mathematics. The entire program of study must be approved by the departmental graduate committee.
Students must pass a written examination on one of the 6600-level sequences in their program(s) of study. Those who choose the thesis option must also complete and defend an expository or research thesis, for which they will receive 6 credits of MATH 6650. Those who choose the non-thesis option must pass a final oral examination over all courses in their program(s) of study.