Link: https://coursecat.isu.edu/graduate/college-of-health/dentalhygiene/msdentalhygiene/
Master of Science Dental Hygiene
Admission Requirements
The student must fulfill the following requirements:
Graduation from an accredited entry-level dental hygiene program
Bachelor's degree in dental hygiene or a related field
Minimum grade point average of 3.0 in upper-division and dental hygiene coursework
Current dental hygiene licensure in good standing
The student must apply to and meet all criteria for admission to the Graduate School, and submit a completed application, residency form, fee payment, and transcripts. International students should refer to the "Admission of International Students" section of this Catalog for TOEFL and other requirements. Information is online at
https://www.isu.edu/graduate/
.
Complete the Dental Hygiene Department application form for the Master of Science degree program (available at
https://isu.edu/dentalhygiene/master-of-science/
).
Submit two recommendation forms provided by the department. One recommendation must be completed by an individual who has personal knowledge of the applicant's clinical skills such as a faculty member from a dental hygiene program, employer, or colleague. The second recommendation must be completed by an individual who has personal knowledge of the applicant's academic and professional qualifications for graduate study such as a faculty member, an officer of a professional association, or a colleague.
Submit to the Graduate School official transcripts to provide evidence of:
Graduation from an accredited entry-level dental hygiene program
Bachelor's degree in dental hygiene or a related field
Minimum grade point average of 3.0 in upper-division courses and a 3.0 in dental hygiene coursework.
Previous education in local anesthesia and nitrous oxide administration is not a requirement for admissions; however, it is preferred. If previous education in these pain control methods was completed, provide evidence of successful completion of classroom and clinical experiences in local anesthesia and nitrous oxide administration. Evidence could include transcripts, course descriptions, expanded functions, or continuing education certificates.
Send a photocopy of a license to provide evidence of current dental hygiene licensure in good standing.
Complete a telephone or personal interview.
Applicants can contact the Department at the following address:
Graduate Program Director
Department of Dental Hygiene
Division of Graduate Studies
921 South 8th Avenue, STOP 8048
Pocatello, Idaho 83209-8048
E-mail address:
msdhinfo@isu.edu
Telephone: (208) 282-2482
General Requirements
A total of 37 credits, including a thesis (minimum of 6 credits), will be required for degree completion. Requirements include 10 courses (26 credits) in the core curriculum, a practicum experience (2-4 credits), and 3 credits of electives.
The core courses advance the theory and practice of dental hygiene and prepare students in research methodology to apply during the thesis process. A thesis is required because the Master of Science degree in Dental Hygiene is the terminal degree in the discipline and a research foundation is imperative to advance the theoretical knowledge base of the profession. To enhance the breadth of knowledge, students are required to complete 3 credits of electives selected from related graduate coursework offered outside the Department of Dental Hygiene.
The program is an online graduate curriculum with on-campus visitations required for DENT 5596 Graduate Seminar I (orientation) and DENT 6619 Graduate Seminar II. A maximum of 9 credits may be transferred officially to Idaho State University.
Course List
Code
Title
Credits
Core Course Requirements
DENT 5596
Graduate Seminar I
1
DENT 6605
Program Development and Evaluation
3
DENT 6610
Special Care Populations
3
DENT 6612
Administration and Management of Healthcare Organizations
3
DENT 6619
Graduate Seminar II
1
DENT 6620
Advanced Educational Theory and Methods
3
DENT 6621
Dental Hygiene Clinical Instruction and Administration
3
DENT 6623
Leadership & Health Policy
3
DENT 6626
Dental Hygiene Practicum
2-4
DENT 6632
Community and Global Health
3
DENT 6646
Health Research
3
DENT 6650
Thesis (minimum credits)
6
Total Hours
37
1
Undergraduate or graduate statistics or biostatistics must be taken as a prerequisite. A minimum of "C'' or better is required.
Academic Requirements
Once admitted, students must complete a plan of graduate study with their dental hygiene graduate advisor no later than the end of the first semester after enrollment. This plan must be approved by the Program Director.
Any student who, after admission to the Master of Science program, falls below a 3.0 GPA, or who receives a grade of C+ or below in two graduate courses during his or her program of study will be deemed to be performing at an unsatisfactory level and will be dismissed.
Any student who, after admission to the Master of Science program, receives a C, C-, D, F, or grade in any graduate course in his or her program of study will be dismissed. Courses with grades of C or lower may not be used to satisfy graduation requirements.
Current CPR, related screenings, and/or immunizations are required prior to attending the on-campus orientation.
Graduation Requirements
Successfully conduct and defend a thesis as outlined in the Department of Dental Hygiene, Division of Graduate Studies, Graduate Student Handbook.
Complete the coursework on the study plan approved by the Program Director, Department of Dental Hygiene, Division of Graduate Studies, and by the ISU Graduate School.