Link: https://www.isu.edu/mph/
Master of Public Health
The MPH program is taught fully online, with synchronous and asynchronous classes.
All students, international and domestic, are welcome to apply. Classes can be taken from anywhere. Given this is an online program, international students will not be able to obtain an F1 visa. This program is designed to meet the needs of working individuals as well as those in rural areas. Faculty are located on both the Meridian and Pocatello campuses.
We admit students in the Fall, Spring, and Summer.
Curriculum
Admissions
Scholarships
Future Employment
Program Information
MPH Program Information
Master of Public Health students can expect a rigorous and rewarding program of study centered around the principles and practice of Public Health. See the
MPH Handbook - v. Fall 2024
for full information on the ISU MPH program, including courses and competencies.
The MPH program is taught fully online, with synchronous and asynchronous classes.
FACULTY:
MPH students have access to faculty through the personal learning environment. In addition, all full-time faculty maintain regular office hours and are available to assist and advise students in person or through video conference.
ADVISING:
The advisement process is an important part of success in the MPH Program. Student advisors provide support in for requirements, program approval, graduation procedures, and other areas.  It is strongly encouraged that you meet with your assigned advisor upon acceptance to the program (no later than registration week) and continue these meetings on regular basis. Upon approval of the student's application for graduate study, the Program Director will assign an advisor. This advisor may be changed by request.
GRADING:
All students must maintain a satisfactory record of scholarship. A 3.0 grade point average (GPA) or better is required for any graduate degree or certification at Idaho State University. A grade below B- is essentially failing at the graduate level. Students who earn a grade
below a B-
in a core course will be required to retake that course. Students who earn grades below a B- in two courses will be dismissed from the program. Students must also conduct themselves in an ethical and professional manner.
THESIS/PROJECT:
To meet graduation requirements, all MPH students must complete a graduate thesis or project. Before any data collection can occur, permission must be obtained through the Idaho State University Human Subjects Committee. Forms for the human subjects process may be obtained from the
Office for Research
.
COURSE SUMMARIES:
We adapt courses according to feedback from students, faculty, and our advisory committee. A listing of our courses can be found in the MPH handbook, and the ISU Graduate Catalog.
Admission to the MPH Program
SOPHAS, the centralized application service for public health is used for admissions.
All applications must be submitted through
SOPHAS
.
Students who the program plans to accept will be asked to submit an additional brief application to the ISU Graduate School.
The MPH Admissions Committee, MPH Program Director, and Department Chair review MPH Program applications.
For classified admission into the program, applicants must satisfy the following criteria:
Meet all requirements of the ISU Graduate School (please refer to the
ISU Graduate "Catalog
."
Applicants must have a minimum of a 3.0 GPA based on the last 60 hours of undergraduate work. Eligible credits are determined by the Graduate School.
An applicant who currently holds a graduate degree must submit their transcripts, but the undergraduate GPA requirement will not apply. Students who the program plans to accept must submit their college transcripts to the ISU Graduate School.
Have two letters of recommendation from non-relative individuals familiar with your academic or professional abilities (no personal references).
Answer four questions about why you want to attend ISU, pursue an MPH, your experience with rural or agricultural communities, and what you are looking for in a public health graduate program.
International students: please note that this is an online program. International students will not be able to obtain an F1 student visa to study in the United States.
Why Choose ISU
The ISU MPH program has been CEPH accredited since 2002.
The Core Competencies for Public Health Professionals are integrated into the curriculum
Online course format is accessible for working individuals and those from rural areas
Flexible opportunities for US and international internships
Faculty are actively engaged in research and professional and community service
Research opportunities are available for students to assist with existing projects or to develop their own through the thesis project.
Not sure about the MPH degree?
Consider our Graduate Certificates in
Public Health
or
Rural Health
!
The Graduate Certificate in Public Health is an 18-credit program that is designed for graduate students currently enrolled in other academic programs and working professionals who would like to expand their knowledge of public health.  The Graduate Certificate in Public Health Curriculum includes courses that address the public health core knowledge areas of biostatistics, epidemiology, social and behavioral sciences, health services administration, and environmental health sciences. Online and in-person class options available.
The Graduate Certificate in Rural Health is a 15-credit program that is designed for graduate students and health professionals who currently practice, or intend to practice, in rural settings. The certificate's curriculum includes courses that: 1) address the public health issues in rural communities, 2) introduce students to rural health systems, and 3) give students a hands-on opportunity to partner with rural health organizations. It also offers a wide variety of electives to help students tailor their experiences to individual needs and interests.
Scholarship Opportunities for Graduate Students
Galen Louis Scholarship
We are honored and grateful to offer the Galen Louis Endowed Scholarship to the graduates of the MPH program. Because of the generosity and careful planning of one of our most beloved leaders and teachers, we can support and assist students of the MPH Program for years to come.
Just prior to his retirement, Louis created an endowment to support the students and faculty in the ISU Master of Public Health program. Ryan Gerulf, the development director for the Kasiska Division of Health Sciences in 2019  said he was honored to have had the opportunity to work with Louis for a short time before his passing. “The endowment will provide over $1000 annually for this program that Galen so loved,” Gerulf explains. “Galen attended a ceremony in October of 2019 to congratulate the most recent recipient, and was still active with the endowment. He also generously offered a matching pledge to gather more support for the Master of Public Health program during Raise the Roar this year.”
Thank you Galen Louis (1949-2019)
Open Scholarships
Division of Health Sciences
Graduate Students
Graduate School's Non-Resident Tuition Waiver
Other Scholarship Opportunities
Americorp
offers Education awards tied to varying amounts of volunteer work. This is often directly public health related. Our local Americorp coordinator is
Kay Fielder
at the
Institute of Rural Health
.
The
Idaho Public Health Association
has offered an annual scholarship that our students have historically been competitive for when applying. Applications are due in the fall semester.
The Master's of Public Health Program may have funds to allocate to a work-study or Career Path Internship periodically. Check with your advisor if you are interested.
The
Idaho State University Career Center
provides a centralized resource for campus jobs, both work-study and non-work-study.
Graduate Teaching Assistantship
Subject to funding availability, prospective and current students may submit application for a graduate teaching assistantship. Please contact the office via phone at (208) 282-2729 or via email at dcph@isu.edu for additional information or fill out the GTA application below.
Graduate Teaching Assistantship Application 2024-2025
MPH Scholarship Opportunities
Minority Internships
Job Opportunities for MPH Graduates
Areas of employment include but are not limited to non-profits, government agencies, hospitals, community clinics, and academia.
Certified Health Education Specialist (CHES)
or
Certified in Public Health (CPH)
certification is strongly recommended (if not required) for employment in many public health career opportunities.
Regardless of work setting, MPH graduates perform the following three (3) core functions and ten (10) essential services:
Assessment
Monitor health status to identify community health problems
Diagnose and investigate health problems and health hazards in the community
Evaluate effectiveness, accessibility, and quality of personal and population-based health services
Policy Development
Develop policies and plans that support individual and community health efforts
Enforce laws and regulations that protect health and ensure safety
Research for new insights and innovative solutions to health problems
Assurance
Link people to needed personal health services and assure the provision of health care when otherwise unavailable
Assure a competent public health and personal health care workforce
Inform, educate, and empower people about health issues
Mobilize community partnerships to identify and solve health problems
Additional Information
The following websites provide additional information about careers in the field of public health. You may also find information about opportunities in public health from the
ISU Career Center
.
What is Public Health?
Public Health Jobs
In addition, faculty will pass along relevant employment opportunities through the Moodle Student Resources page and through the
ISU MPH Program LinkedIn group
for current students and alumni.
Workforce Development
Idaho State University’s Master of Public Health Workforce Training offers trainings and articles to further your education after your masters program.
“Workforce Development in public health is an attempt to improve health outcomes (i.e.healthier people) by enhancing the training, skills, and performance of public health workers.”
- The Public Health Foundation, 2016
National Action Alliance for Suicide Prevention Resource Library
:
Zero Suicide in Health and Behavioral Health Care
CDC trainings:
Overarching list
(listed trainings provided by CDC, CDC Partners, Other Federal Agencies)
CDCPH 101 Series Home
CDC TRAIN
provides the most comprehensive catalog of public health learning products. TRAIN is one of the most widely used learning management systems and is a free service of the Public Health Foundation. We can find specific topics by search for keyword. May need to register to CDC TRAIN to get free education.
Trainings offered by the Northwest Center for Public Health Practice
(U of Washington)
Public Health Improvement Resource Center
Can search for presentation, training and web resource
An example of search result
NIH VideoCasting
and Podcasting:
NIH StrokeNet Educational Webinar
(for instance professional development webinars, such as Grant Writing, How to Create a Study Budget, How to Present Your Data, and  Tips for Writing your CV & NIH Biosketch)
MPH Program Accreditation
Self Study March 2023
CEPH Final Report
Vision
Diverse communities co-creating sustained health for all.
Mission
The mission of the Master of Public Health (MPH) Program at Idaho State University is to improve the health and well-being of human populations through the application of the essential services of public health by excellence in instruction, community service, research, and continuing professional education.
MPH Program Goals
Goal One - INSTRUCTION: To deliver an evidence-based academic program preparing students for public health practice.
Goal Two - RESEARCH: To promote and support public health research and scholarly endeavor, and provide leadership in public health priorities.
Goal Three - COMMUNITY SERVICE: To support students and faculty in demonstrating public health leadership and contributing to public health at the local, state, and national level.
Goal Four - CONTINUING EDUCATION: To strengthen the existing public health workforce by providing advanced skills, knowledge, and professional learning opportunities throughout Idaho.