Link: https://coursecat.isu.edu/graduate/education/teachingandeducationalstudies/martteaching/
Master of Arts in Teaching
Admission Requirements
Applicants for the Master of Arts in Teaching must apply to and meet all criteria for admission to the Graduate School and all college requirements for admission and retention including:
Bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited college or university in the United States, or equivalent from a school in another country.
Grade point average of 3.0 or higher for all upper-division credits taken at the undergraduate level, although students with a GPA 2.5-2.9 may be considered for a conditional admission with a performance requirement.
Letter of Intent stating desired option (Traditional or Alternative Authorization), certification (elementary, grades K-8, or secondary, grades 6-12) and endorsement (subject area).
Deadlines for application are July 15 for Fall semester, November 15 for Spring semester, and April 15 for Summer semester.
General Requirements
The Master’s program coursework is fully online (both asynchronous and synchronous courses) with two different options available leading to Idaho teacher certification. Required field experience and student teaching must be done in a face-to-face classroom setting. Total credit requirements depend on endorsement area and option, and will vary between 36 and 42 credits.
The program consists of two core courses that provide a framework for a master's degree in the College of Education and a series of emphasis courses designed to strengthen candidate pedagogical knowledge and skills. A capstone experience is also required and must be taken simultaneously with student teaching.
Additional Requirements for Certification
All candidates applying for certification must also submit a background check to the State Department of Education, pass the Idaho Content Literacy Assessment and pass the Praxis II exam appropriate to their endorsement area before student teaching. Candidates seeking certification in Career and Technical Education will have additional requirements for certification.
Course List
Code
Title
Credits
Graduate Core Requirements
EDUC 6601
Research and Writing
3
EDUC 6602
Theories of Learning
3
MAT Concentration (emphasis) Courses
EDUC 6620
Motivation for Learning
3
EDUC 6622
Educational Assessment and Evaluation
3
EDLA 6630
Education Equity and Ethics ( )
3
SPED 5550
Creating Inclusive Classrooms
3
CTE 5501
Foundations of Career and Technical Education ((Required only for CTE emphasis))
3
One of the following:
3
EDUC 6630
Advanced Elementary Methods
CTE 5503
Methods of Teaching Career and Technical Education
One of the following:
3
EDUC 5501
Content Area Literacy
EDUC 5519
Developmental Literacy
One of the following:
3
EDLT 6616
Integration of Technology into School Curriculum
CTE 5554
Adobe in Education
Capstone Experience
EDUC 6651
Field Project or Case Study in Education
3
Field Experience Requirements
EDUC 6652
Field Practicum in Education (3 to 6 depending on option)
3-6
Total Credits
36-39