Link: https://coursecat.isu.edu/graduate/college-of-health/school-of-nursing/msnursing/
Master of Science in Nursing Education
The Master of Science in Nursing (M.S.) program is offered online and requires 43 credits. A full-time or part-time program is available in the Nursing Education option at the discretion of the SON. Delivery of a master’s degree program option in any academic year is based on number of total applicants and ability to establish a full cohort at the time of the admission process as determined by SON.
M.S.,  Nursing Education Option Program Outcomes
Bachelor of Science (BS) to Master of Science (MS). Students enrolled in the Nursing Education option will be prepared to:
Use an evidence based approach that critically applies evidence and integrates theory and research findings to enhance nursing practice.
Assume a leadership role in managing human, fiscal, and physical health care resources demonstrating application of health care policy, organization, and financing of healthcare.
Understand principles, personal values and beliefs that provide a framework for nursing practice.
Analyze systems of health care and determine how the values underpinning them influence care delivered.
Understand the nursing profession, advanced nursing roles, the requirements for, and regulation of these roles, and integrate the advanced nursing role into the graduate’s professional practice.
Understand, appreciate and value diversity in health and illness and assure the delivery of appropriate patient-centered care.
Partner with individuals, groups and communities to achieve and maintain an optimal level of health through an interdisciplinary process.
Admission Requirements
The student must apply to and meet all requirements for admission to the Graduate School. In addition to the general requirements of the Graduate School, the following is required:
Earned Bachelor of Science (BS in Nursing or BSN) from a program accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE) or other nationally recognized accrediting body for nursing education.
Cumulative GPA of 3.0 or higher from a Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.S. or B.S.N.) program of study or 3.0 or higher GPA based on previous 60 credits of most recently completed degree.
English Proficiency Exams: The SON MS program adheres to the ISU Graduate School policy for those students who have not graduated from an accredited college or university in the United States (at the undergraduate and/or graduate level) and whose native language is not English.
Completed application by established deadline.
Verification of valid and current unencumbered Registered Nursing license.
Mandatory attendance at the orientation for the MS in Nursing program to be held on the ISU Pocatello campus in August of the year of admission. Admission to the education option is dependent on a full cohort as determined by the School of Nursing.
Application Requirements
Application for the Master of Science degree options opens in September of any academic year. Preference will be given to applications submitted by December 1 of any year. Notification of successful applicants for admission and alternates will begin in late April of any year.
The student must apply to and meet all requirements for admission to the Graduate School. In addition to the general requirements of the Graduate School, the following is required:
Application through the ISU Graduate School website with payment of appropriate fees.
Submission of official transcripts of all degrees including completion of the Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN or BS in Nursing) degree from an accredited nursing program. Official transcripts must be sent directly to the Graduate School from the Registrar’s Office of the applicant’s previous institution(s) of study.
Submission of a professional essay (2-3 pages) through the ISU Graduate School application system. See CollegeNet application site for further information.
Three professional reference forms attesting to the applicant’s capacity and potential for master’s study. (It is recommended two references be from academic sources and one from a recent employer.) All forms are sent through the ISU Graduate School application system.
Submission of professional vitae or resume.
The SON Graduate Admission Committee will make the final recommendation regarding admissions. This decision will be based on evaluation of established admission and application requirements for any program.
Individuals who do not meet these admissions requirements may be considered for admission as a nonclassified student with program restrictions until all requirements are met or candidate is evaluated for progress based on established SON guidelines, policies, and/or procedures.
Master of Science (MS) Nursing Education Option
Course List
Code
Title
Credits
Required Coursework
NURS 6600
Theoretical Foundations for Nursing Practice
3
NURS 6602
Health Policy
3
NURS 6610
Advanced Evidence Application
3
NURS 6612
Health Care of Rural Communities
2
NURS 6613
Health Assessment
2
NURS 6613L
Health Assessment Lab
1
NURS 6620
Advanced Human Pathophysiology
3
NURS 6621
Advanced Nursing Roles
2
NURS 6633
Rethinking Nursing Education
3
NURS 6635
Curriculum Issues and Development
3
NURS 6639
Teaching and Learning Strategies in Nursing Education
3
NURS 6640
Evaluation Issues and Strategies in Nursing Education
3
NURS 6647L
Advanced Practicum in Nursing Education
6
NURS 6655
Advanced Leadership
3
One 3-Credit Elective Required
3
Total
43
Progression of Graduate Students
Progression criteria established by the SON and Graduate School. Each degree program or option has specific progression requirements established within the SON. These policies are made available in specific program option Student Handbooks provided upon admission. Students are admitted and entered into an established curricular plan of study and must maintain that plan of study in order to progress.
Graduation Criteria
To qualify for graduation with a graduate degree (MS, DNP, or Ph.D.) from the School of Nursing, the student must:
Pass a comprehensive examination process or equivalent as established by the School of Nursing for any degree program.
Meet all requirements established by ISU, the Graduate School, and the School of Nursing specific to the degree program in which the student is enrolled.