Link: https://www.isu.edu/medicalcoding/
Medical Coding Program
Program Description
With 50 years of combined experience in Health Information Technology, the faculty of this program are well qualified to provide students quality training for an in-demand and rewarding profession as a medical coder. Students completing this program will be eligible to sit for the AHIMA Certified Coding Specialist (CCS) examination.
The Medical Coding Technical Certificate program is perfect for students that need to work while they attend school, or that are looking for a fast program to get them into a new career. Students get the flexibility to choose full time or part time attendance and seated or fully online sections of all required courses. Program entry is granted in both Spring and Fall Semesters.
The Medical Coding Technical Certificate program prepares graduates to work in a variety of health care settings. Opportunities exist in working remotely and in other related health care settings like insurance companies, medical clinics, computer software vendors, and health maintenance organizations, software companies, and law firms.
Graduates Employed or Continuing Education Last Year
89%
Idaho Median Income
$38,580 - $57,160
Program Overview
1.5 year program, requiring only 38 credits for Intermediate Technical Certificate
Program is
fully online
Spring and Fall semester entrance
Students have the option to attend full or part time.
Opportunities exist in working remotely and in other related health care settings
Students completing this program will be able to take the AHIMA Certified Coding Specialist (CCS examination)
Credits from this certificate transfer seamlessly into the next level degree(s) including; Health Information Technology A.A.S., Bachelor of Applied Science, or Bachelor Science, Health Science
Program is located in the Owen Redfield Complex,  Building #42,
1151 Red Hlll Rd
Degree Options
Health Information Technology Medical Coding Intermediate Technical Certificate (1.5 year)
Course Sequence
Intermediate Technical Certificate: Medical Coding
Program Costs
Credits from this certificate transfer seamlessly into the next level degree(s) including;
Health Information Technology A.A.S.
,
Bachelor of Applied Science
, or
Bachelor of Science, Health Science
.
Career Opportunities
Long-term care facilities
Physician offices
Hospitals and medical clinics
Computer software vendors
Law firms
Insurance companies
Program Requirements
High School Diploma or GED
Students must be qualified for college level coursework in English and Math (See an advisor for details)
Pre-admission meeting with Program Coordinator
Minimum Test Scores
Minimum Test Scores
SAT
Math: 360
ACT
Math: 14
ALEKS
Math: 14
Programs Related to Medical Coding
College of Technology
All Programs
Medical Coding Program
Course Sequence
Program Costs
Meet your Instructors
Contact Us
ctech@isu.edu
(208) 282-2800
Apply Now
Schedule a Tour
Request Information