Link: https://www.isu.edu/healthsciences/mindfulness/
Mindfulness Practice
Mindfulness practice involves developing present-moment awareness. Mindful awareness allows us to understand our thought patterns, emotions, and actions.   It develops awareness of what is actually going on.  Please enjoy exploring this page to see some of the benefits of mindfulness practice.
Interprofessional Certificate in Mindfulness at the Kasiska Division of Health Sciences
The Kasiska Division of Health Sciences (KDHS) is pleased to announce that it is offering an Interprofessional Certificate in Mindfulness, available to students and staff at ISU, as well as members of the community.  The certificate is offered as both an undergraduate and graduate certificate and requires 11-13 hours for completion. It can be completed online.
One can obtain a General Certificate in Mindfulness or choose one of three emphasis areas. Students seeking specialization in an area of mindfulness will work with a faculty member in the Mindfulness Program to choose specific elective coursework and design their capstone project, which can take the form of an academic paper, a service project, shadowing a mindfulness practitioner, or development of a mindfulness program for an educational setting or workplace.
Interprofessional Certificate in Mindfulness
Emphasis areas:
Mindfulness Advocacy at Work
Mindfulness practice has been shown to be effective at reducing burnout in the workplace, particularly in healthcare. This emphasis area prepares students to integrate mindfulness into their own lives and to be an advocate for workplace integration of mindfulness to address institutional sources of burnout.
Clinical Applications of Mindfulness
Many clinical disciplines have found that mindfulness can have a positive effect on therapeutic outcomes for their patients. This emphasis area provides the tools for developing their own mindfulness practice and integrating mindfulness into their clinical interventions.
Awakening Compassion
Developing compassion has been shown to reduce workplace burnout and increase personal happiness and wellbeing. This emphasis provides the experience and tools to develop the heart qualities of empathy, kindness, and compassion and to integrate these qualities into their lives and work.
General Certificate Course Requirements (11 - 13 credits)
Core Mindfulness Courses
(5-7 credits
)
Introduction to Mindfulness
or
Fundamentals of Mindfulness
Effects of Mindfulness
or
The Mindful Practitioner
Mindfulness in Health Science
Mindfulness Capstone
Elective Courses:
Applications of Mindfulness: (
2 credits from the following)
Mindful Self Compassion
Introduction to Yoga Nidra
Mindfulness-Based Strengths Practice
Independent Study in Mindfulness
Theory and Context of Mindfulness: Choose ONE of the following (
3 credits
)
Introduction to Asian Philosophies
Cognitive Neuroscience
Complementary/Integrative Health
Movement Meditation Course:  Choose ONE of the following (
1 credit
)
Beginning Yoga
Intermediate Yoga
Tai Chi
For more information, please contact Tony Seikel at seikel@isu.edu.
Instructions for Applying to the Certificate Program
Procedure for applying to the ISU Interprofessional Mindfulness Certificate Program
(last updated June 21, 2023)
1.
Apply to ISU
if you are not already an ISU Student.
2. From the drop-down list on the application, select
Interprofessional Certificate in Mindfulness
as your major; NOTE: if you are already an ISU student, contact your academic advisor and request that the Interprofessional Mindfulness Certificate be declared in addition to your current major.
3. Contact the academic advisor for the Interprofessional Certificate in Mindfulness if you have questions about program requirements:
Maya Tillotson
(208) 282-2375
mayatillotson@isu.edu
Pocatello Campus
Maya may also be reached through the
Pre-Health Advising
page by scheduling and in-person or Zoom appointment.
You may also direct questions about the Certificate to Tony Seikel
tonyseikel@isu.edu
or Chris Owens
chrisowens@isu.edu
in the Kasiska Division of Health Sciences
4. In Bengal Web, check your Degree Works portal for a list of required courses and to track your progress.
5. You should meet regularly with your academic advisor as you complete the courses.  You may graduate with the Mindfulness Certificate when all requirements are completed.
For more information about academic certificates available at ISU, visit:
https://www.isu.edu/certificates/
For students NEWLY ADMITTED to ISU who are ONLY taking Mindfulness courses, the total cost is approximately $5,149, which includes the following:
Application fee to Idaho State University: $50
Tuition/fees: $426.75 per credit (x 11 credits) = $4,694.25
NOTE: Out-of-state students are charged IN-STATE tuition for online courses plus the eISU fee
Online courses are also charged a $35 eISU fee per credit (x 11 credits) = $385
Graduation/diploma fee: $20
Note that there will be a tuition/fee increase in Fall 2023, so cost per credit will be somewhat higher than shown here.
Sitting Groups and Resources on Campus
Fall End-of-Year Mindfulness Retreat
Please join us for a half-day Mindfulness Retreat, November 23 from 9:00 am to 1:00 pm, a the Wood River Room of the Pond Student Union, as well as by Zoom.  Bring a snack for eating meditation.  Chairs and some cushions will be provided, or bring your own.  Bring a mat for optional yoga practice.  Instruction will be provided.  To register, please contact Tony Seikel at
seikel@isu.edu
.
If you’re interested in putting your toes in the meditation water, you can come to one of the weekly meditation sitting groups on campus. You don’t need to have any prior experience—just request the Zoom link and show up!  The meditation leader will gladly give meditation instructions or give a guided meditation.
Currently meeting online by Zoom:  Sponsored by the Audiology Program-Contact
holsjenn@isu.edu
for Zoom link, 208-282-4196
Thursdays, 12:15-12:45;
available Fall and Spring semesters
Online Guided Meditations by ISU Faculty and Students
Mindfulness of the Breath.
Mindfulness of the Breath is a core practice of Mindfulness meditation.   A widely accepted definition of mindfulness is from Jon Kabat-Zinn:, "Mindfulness is the awareness that arises through paying attention, on purpose, in the present moment, non-judgmentally, in the service of self-understanding and wisdom.”  The practice is simply paying attention to the breath, and when the mind wanders, bringing the attention back to the breath, without judgment.   The "non-judgment" part is particularly important, because it trains us in patience, resilience, and compassion.
Mindfulness of the Breath
17 minutes
Paula Seikel
Mindfulness of the Breath 15 minutes Vaishaly Gursahani
Mindfulness of the Breath 23 minutes Lorinda Smith
Mindfulness of Breathing 10 minutes Jen Miesch
Mindfulness of the Breath 12 minutes Beth Guzi
Mindfulness of
the
Breath 11 minutes Tony Seikel
Mindfulness of
the
Breath 27 minutes Jen Miesch
Mindfulness of
the
Breath 20 minutes Paula Seikel
Mindfulness of the Breath 5 minutes Curt Anderson
Body Scan.
The Body Scan is an essential mindfulness tool, in that we have this deep aspiration to come back to the present moment, which is precisely in this body we inhabit.  Many of us find the body scan to be difficult at first because it requires us to really attend to the sensations of our body in a deep way.  There are great benefits from practicing the body scan, including increasing awareness of the effects of our mental states and emotions on our body.
Body Scan 7 minutes Beth Guzi
Body Scan 30 minutes Jen Miesch
Body Scan 24 minutes Erin Henson
Mindfulness of Thoughts and Feelings.
Mindfulness of Thoughts and Feelings is a powerful tool for seeing what your mind is doing, as a first step for developing the ability to control impulsiveness, as well as to understand, to truly feel, and to regulate emotions.  Mindfulness of Special Senses is a meditation that helps refine your awareness of the senses of hearing, smell and touch.
Mindfulness of Thoughts and Feelings 21 minutes Paula Seikel
Mindfulness of Special Senses 19 minutes Tony Seikel
Lovingkindness or Metta Practices
Lovingkindness or Metta Practices are core methods in Mindfulness for developing empathy and compassion.   We know that a person will develop compassion as a natural process of mindfulness meditation.  Metta practice will "jump start" that compassion development, ultimately resulting in increased open awareness, ease, and happiness.
Lovingkindness (Metta) 17 minutes Jen Miesch
Mindful Self Compassion 13 minutes Jen Miesch
Lovingkindness (Metta) 27 minutes Tony Seikel
Metta and tree meditation 34 minutes Tony Seikel
Lovingkindness (Metta) 15 minutes Jenn Holst
Lovingkindness (Metta) practice 5 minutes Beth Guzi
Leaves on a Stream
Leaves on a Stream is a guided meditation that is frequently used to help a person reduce habitual thoughts, anxieties, and rumination.   Many people find this to be a "go-to" when their minds are particularly active.
Leaves on a stream
13 min
utes Jen Miesch
Leaves on a Stream 11 minutes Beth Guzi
Taking the One Seat
Taking the One Seat is a meditation from the Thai teacher Ajahn Chah.  This meditation helps you to maintain your "meditation seat" in the face of worries, competing thoughts, and fantasies. Open Sky Awareness helps the meditator become more easeful, developing the capacity to sit in open awareness.
Taking the One Seat 8 minutes Paula Seikel
Open Sky Awareness 7 minutes Beth Guzi
Course meditations, Introduction to Yoga Nidra Meditation, DHS 4412/5512
Integrative Restoration Yoga Nidra is a form of meditative practice that helps with chronic stress, depression, anxiety, chronic pain, burnout, and insomnia, to name a few. The practice brings the practitioner into greater whole-body awareness, equanimity, and the ability to rest in awareness of the present moment, even during hectic and challenging times.  It is used by some to support sleep hygiene, and provides a sense of calm and stability to the practitioner.
Yoga Nidra Whole Body Awareness Celeste Tandy 19 min
Yoga Nidra Body Sensing with Autogenics Celeste Tandy 18 min
Heartfelt Desire Meditation Celeste Tandy 16 min.
Your Heartfelt Desire, Celeste Tandy, 8 min.
Breathing Meditation Practice, Celeste Tandy, 9 min
.
Being Meditation, Celeste Tandy, 9 min.
Body Scan, Tony Seikel, 30 min.
Body Sensing Yoga Nidra, Celeste Tandy, 23 min.
Inner Resource, Celeste Tandy, 9 min.
Mindfulness of Feeling Tone Meditation, 14 min
Inner Resource Healing Nap, Celeste Tandy, 12 min.
Progressive Muscle Relaxation, Celeste Tandy, 21 min.
Relax and Respond, Celeste Tandy, 29 min.
Breath Sensing, Celeste Tandy, 15 min.
Body Sensing, Breath Sensing, Celeste Tandy, 32 min.
Noticing Flows of Inhalation/exhalation, Celeste Tandy, 9 min.
Walking Meditation, Tony Seikel (video)
Welcoming the Universe mindful movement, Tony Seikel (video)
Yoga Nidra for Sleep, Celeste Tandy, 27 min.
Inner Resource and Healing Nap, Celeste Tandy, 12 min.
Inner Resource and Welcoming Feelings and Emotions, 25 min.
Full iRest Yoga Nidra with Opposites of Emotion, Celeste Tandy, 40 min.
Proactively Engaging Feelings and Emotions, Celeste Tandy, 10 min.
Welcoming Feeling and Emotions, Celeste Tandy, 22 min.
Welcoming Opposites of Feelings and Emotions, Celeste Tandy, 10 min.
Working with Mental Distraction (To-Do list meditation), Jenn Holst, 15 min.
Journaling Meditation - Welcoming Opposites of Thought, Celeste Tandy, (12min)
Meditation on Gratitude, Celeste Tandy, 12 min.
Mindfulness of Breath with Counting, Tony Seikel, 8 min.
Sheath of Cognition, iRest, Celeste Tandy, 44 min
Enhancing Joy, Celeste Tandy, 8 min.
Welcoming Joy and Well-Being, Celeste Tandy, 9 min.
Mountain Meditation, Tony Seikel, 13 min.
Course Meditations for DHS 4406/5506 The Mindful Practitioner
Below is the sequence of meditations that are currently within the Mindful Practitioner course.   This course is designed to develop mindful communication skills, as well as to prepare the course participant to integrate mindfulness into both clinical practice and clinical worksites.  A significant component of this course is discussion of ways to alleviate or prevent professional burnout.
01 Mindfulness of the Breath 7 min
01 Mindfulness of the Breath 9 min
02 Body scan 14 min
02 Movement meditation 9 min audio
02 Movement meditation 9 min video
03 Leaves on a stream 11 min
03 Noting and Labeling 8 min
04 Mindfulness of sensations, self, not self 20 min
04 RAIN 11 min
05 Mindful Eating Raisin Exercise 7 min
05 Yoga Nidra Split Breath 12 min
06 Lovingkindness 16  min
06 mindfulness of feeling tone 15 min
07 Meeting your future self 10 min
07 Mindfulness of breath 10 min
08 Ancient Tree meditation 13 min
08 Taking the one seat 12 min
09 Keeping the Pig out of the Garden 10 min
09 Richard Miller Body Scan 18 min
010 Mindfulness of Breath 12 min
010 Mountain Meditation 15 min
011 49 Breaths 9 min
011 Elements Body scan 23 min
012 Lovingkindness for a loved one Jen Miesch 12 min
012 Tonglen 17 min
013 Gratitude 16 min
013 Mindfulness of Emotions 19 min
015 Meditation on Equanimity 9 min
015 Meditation on warming the heart from Rick Hanson 15 min
016 Metta meditation 18 min
016 Mindfulness of Breath from retreat 16 min
Courses in Mindfulness at ISU
The Kasiska Division of Health Sciences (KDHS) offers a suite of courses to help you develop your mindfulness practice. These are available to students, staff and community members.  Here are the current courses and descriptions.
Fall 2024 Mindfulness Courses
ISU:
The Mindful YOU
niversity!
MINDFULNESS ONLINE COURSES
Fall, 2024
Mindful Self-Compassion
: (DHS 4408/5508, 1 cr.) Online Fixed Time, Early 8-weeks, Wed. 3:00 – 5:00 pm MT.
Kristin Stewart Yates & Jane Coe Smith.
Students and professionals learn concepts and practices for mindfully developing self-compassion in everyday interaction with self and others. Application of these skills for both personal support and professional guidance with others is integrated into skills and practices. This course uses the Mindful Self-Compassion program developed by Neff & Germer (2010). Contact Kristin Stewart Yates at
stewkris@isu.edu
.
The Mindful Practitioner (asynchronous)
: (DHS 4406/5506, 2 cr.) Online totally asynchronous. Tony Seikel.
Totally online section. Students and professionals learn to integrate mindfulness into their clinical practice, recognize the direct effects of mindful meditation practice on clients and practitioners, and develop skills for advocating mindfulness programs in the workplace. The focus is on mindfulness in health sciences, but all are welcome to take the course. See separate section number in schedule. Contact Tony Seikel at
seikel@isu.edu
.
Mindfulness in Health Science:
(
DHS 4401/5501, 2 cr.)  Online Fixed Time, Tue. 3:00 – 4:50 pm MT. Paula Seikel & Marlene Darling.
Students will learn Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction and will study the research exploring how mindfulness improves mental and physical health for clinicians and clients. Graduate students will lead a mindfulness practice for the class. The focus is on mindfulness in health sciences, but everyone is welcome. Contact Paula Seikel at
seikpaul@isu.edu
.
Fundamentals of Mindfulness:
(
DHS 4410/5510, 2 cr.) Online Fixed Time, Thur. 5:00 – 6:40 pm MT.  Jenn Holst & Tony Seikel.
This course provides students with core skills and practice in multiple forms of mindfulness meditation and emphasizes developing functional application of mindfulness practices in all daily activities. Open to anyone interested in mindfulness practice. Contact Tony Seikel at
seikel@isu.edu
.
Introduction to Mindfulness and Yoga Nidra: (DHS 4412/5512, 1 cr.)
Online totally asynchronous,
early 8 weeks.   Celeste Tandy & Tony Seikel.
Yoga Nidra is a meditative practice that helps reduce the effects of physical and emotional stress and increases balance and equanimity. Students will learn how to integrate Yoga Nidra and other meditation practices into their personal and professional lives. This form of yoga is practiced lying down in deep relaxation. Contact Tony Seikel at
seikel@isu.edu
.
Classes are offered through the Division of Health Sciences and are open to ISU students, staff, and faculty and others wanting to learn ways to respond more mindfully to stress, improve their ability to stay present, and practice these skills with other learners. These classes are primarily experiential, so consistent attendance is essential. For more information and guided practices see
https://www.isu.edu/healthsciences/mindfulness/
Spring 2025 Mindfulness Courses
MINDFULNESS ONLINE COURSES
Spring and Summer, 2025
KDHS Mindfulness Classes are all offered by Zoom
or Asynchronous Online
this Spring.
Spring 2025
:
Mindful Parenting (DHS 4499-13/5599-12, 2 cr.) Online, fixed time.  Thursdays, 4:30-6:00 pm MT.  Instructors Karen Genelle & Danny Kell.
Students will learn how to practice mindfulness to reduce reactivity and cultivate compassion. Effective communication skills and elements of mindful discipline will be employed to increase cooperation and improve relationships. Contact
karengenelle@isu.edu
Introduction to Mindfulness (DHS 4411-01; DHS 5511-01; 1 cr.)  Online, fixed time.  Early 8 weeks, Tuesdays, 4:30-5:50 pm MT. Instructors:  Jenn Holst & Paula Seikel.
This course introduces core skills and basic practices based on the four foundations of mindfulness: body, feelings, thoughts, and daily activities. Outside-of-class practice is an important part of the class. Contact Jenn Holst
holsjenn@isu.edu
Effects of Mindfulness
(DHS 4405-01/5505-01; 1 cr.) Online, Fixed time. Late 8 weeks;
Tuesdays, 5:00-6:40pm MT. Instructors: Tony Seikel, Kristin Fletcher, & Ron Solbrig.
This course provides meditation instruction and examination of your practice, while focusing on research on the physical, psychological, and neurophysiological changes resulting from meditation.  Outside-of-class practice is an important part of the class. Contact Tony Seikel
seikel@isu.edu
Mindful Self-Compassion
(DHS 4408-01/5508-01; 2 cr.)
Online, fixed time
.
Pocatello campus, early 8 weeks, Wednesdays, 3:00-5:00 pm.  Instructors: Kristin Stewart Yates & Rick Pongratz. B
ased on the Mindful Self-Compassion (MSC) program, -supported, 8-week, training program designed to cultivate the skill of self-compassion. Based on the groundbreaking research of Kristin Neff and the clinical expertise of Christopher Germer, MSC teaches core principles and practices that enable participants to respond to difficult moments in their lives with kindness, care and understanding. Participants will learn how to practice self-compassion in daily life and understand the benefits of self-compassion. Contact Kristin Stewart Yates at
stewkris@isu.edu
.
Introduction to Mindfulness and Yoga Nidra: (DHS 4499/5599, 1 cr.) Online No Fixed Time, late 8 weeks.   Celeste Tandy & Tony Seikel.
Yoga Nidra is a meditative practice that helps reduce the effects of physical and emotional stress and increases balance and equanimity. Students will learn how to integrate Yoga Nidra and other meditation practices into their personal and professional lives. This form of yoga is practiced lying down in deep relaxation. Contact Celeste Tandy
celestetandy@isu.edu
or Tony Seikel at
seikel@isu.edu
.
Mindfulness-Based Strength Practices (MBSP). (DHS 4416-01/5599-14, 1 cr.) Online Fixed Time, Wed. 1:00-3:00 pm MT, March 10 - May 9
.
Jane Coe Smith. MBSP integrates mindfulness and character strengths practices. Character Strengths builds awareness of personal strengths. Mindfulness practices are introduced and integrated with personal strengths practice. This interactive and experiential course promotes mindfully employing character strengths in personal and professional contexts. Contact Jane Coe Smith at
<
janecoesmith@isu.edu
>
Summer 2025
:
Introduction to Mindfulness (DHS 4411-01; DHS 5511-01; 1 cr.)  Online, fixed time.  Late 8 weeks, Wednesdays, 4:00-5:40 pm MT. Instructors:  Karen Genelle & Kristin Fletcher.
This course introduces core skills and basic practices based on the four foundations of mindfulness: body, feelings, thoughts, and daily activities. Outside-of-class practice is an important part of the class. Contact Karen Genelle
karengenelle@isu.edu
Mindful Parenting (DHS 4499-*/5599-*, 2 cr.) Online, fixed time. Early 8 weeks, Tuesdays & Thursdays, 4:30-6:10 pm MT.  Instructors Karen Genelle & Danny Kell.
Students will learn how to practice mindfulness to reduce reactivity and cultivate compassion. Effective communication skills and elements of mindful discipline will be employed to increase cooperation and improve relationships. Contact
karengenelle@isu.edu
Mindful Self-Compassion
(DHS 4408-01/5508-01; 2 cr.)
Online, fixed time.
Pocatello campus, late 8 weeks, Wednesdays, 1:00-3:00 pm.  Instructor: Kristin Stewart Yates. B
ased on the Mindful Self-Compassion (MSC) program, -supported, 8-week, training program designed to cultivate the skill of self-compassion. Based on the groundbreaking research of Kristin Neff and the clinical expertise of Christopher Germer, MSC teaches core principles and practices that enable participants to respond to difficult moments in their lives with kindness, care and understanding. Participants will learn how to practice self-compassion in daily life and understand the benefits of self-compassion. Contact Kristin Stewart Yates at
stewkris@isu.edu
.
Classes are offered through the Division of Health Sciences and are open to ISU students, staff, and faculty and others wanting to learn ways to respond more mindfully to stress, improve their ability to stay present, and practice these skills with other learners. These classes are primarily experiential, so consistent attendance is essential. For more information and guided practices see
https://www.isu.edu/healthsciences/mindfulness/
*The section numbers for these courses are not yet available.
Effects of Mindfulness Practice
There is a very rich research literature on the effects of mindfulness practice that we invite you to explore.  Mindfulness practice produces both physical effects, psychological effects, and neurophysiologic effects, which are intertwined.   Because of focus on the present moment, stress responses that increase blood pressure in the short and long term are reduced.  The long-term effects are reduced stroke and heart disease risk, as well as reduced stress and anxiety.  Perhaps the most remarkable effects are changes that occur in the brain as a result of mindfulness practice, including changes in brain volume in areas related to cognitive function (executive function control, memory, and attention), as well as those related to insight and compassion.
Learning Outcomes for Division of Health Sciences Mindfulness Courses
DHS 4401/5501 Mindfulness in Health Science
Students will understand basic concepts of mindfulness.
Students will demonstrate their understanding of mindfulness through daily journals.
Students will experience a variety of mindfulness activities and evaluate their usefulness in their lives.
Graduate students will have the additional assignment to write a summary of a research article on mindfulness.
DHS 4408/5508 Mindful Self-Compassion
The students will understand concepts of Mindful Self-Compassion.
The students will explore and evaluate self-compassion practices as demonstrated through their weekly reflection journals and class discussions.
The graduate students will create a short paper on applying self-compassion in their fields of study.
DHS 4405/5505 Effects of Mindfulness
Students will apply their knowledge of mindfulness through various practices, including meditation, movement, and daily living, and as evidenced in their daily meditation logs.
Students will explore and evaluate research in the field of mindfulness, as demonstrated through a written product.
Students will explore and evaluate applications of mindfulness in healthcare.
Graduate Students will create a presentation for the class on the ways mindfulness could be applied to their fields of study.
DHS 4406/5506 The Mindful Practitioner
Students will apply their knowledge of mindfulness through various practices, including meditation, movement, and daily living, and as evidenced in their daily meditation logs.
Students will explore and evaluate applications of mindfulness in healthcare.
Students will demonstrate knowledge of mindful communication as it relates to the work setting through classroom discussion.
Students will learn individual and workplace problems that lead to employee burnout, and identify strategies to ameliorate those at the agency level.
The Graduate Student will create a presentation for the class on the ways mindfulness could be applied to their fields of study.
DHS 4410/5510 Fundamentals of Mindfulness
The students will understand the concepts of mindfulness.
Students will apply their knowledge of mindfulness through various practices, including meditation, movement, and daily living, and as evidenced in their daily meditation logs.
The student will understand the theory of mindfulness meditation and practice, as demonstrated through classroom discussion.
The students will assess and evaluate the outcome of their meditation practice, as demonstrated through their daily meditation logs.
Graduate students will have the additional assignment to write a summary of a research article on mindfulness.
DHS 4412/5512 Introduction to Yoga Nidra and Mindfulness
Students will apply their knowledge of Yoga Nidra and Mindfulness through various practices, as evidenced in their daily meditation logs.
The student will understand the theory of Yoga Nidra and Mindfulness, as demonstrated through classroom discussion.
The students will assess and evaluate the outcome of their Yoga Nidra practice, as demonstrated through their daily meditation logs.
Graduate students will have the additional assignment to write a summary of a research article on mindfulness.
DHS 4411/5511 Introduction to Mindfulness
Students will understand basic concepts of mindfulness.
Students will demonstrate their understanding of mindfulness through daily journals.
Students will experience a variety of mindfulness activities and evaluate their usefulness in their lives.
Graduate students will have the additional assignment to write a summary of a research article on mindfulness.
DHS 4416/5516 Mindfulness-Based Strength Practices
The students will understand the concepts of mindfulness and character strengths practices.
The students will explore and practice integrated applications of mindfulness-based strengths practices.
The students will assess and evaluate the outcome of their mindfulness-based strengths practices in their weekly reflection journals and class discussions.
The graduate students will develop a short paper on applying mindfulness-based strengths practices to their field of study.
DHS 4414/5515 Independent Study in Mindfulness
Students will work with their mindfulness advisor to develop and implement a plan of independent study in mindfulness.
DHS 4415/5515 Capstone in Mindfulness
Students will work with their mindfulness advisor to create and implement a project that may include new program development, research in a particular area, or focused study of a specific interest.