Link: https://coursecat.isu.edu/graduate/college-of-health/homeland-security-and-emergency-management/cert/
Online Homeland Security and Emergency Management Certificate
A graduate certificate in Homeland Security and Emergency Management (HSEM) from Idaho State University integrates security studies with options to study risk analysis, critical infrastructure, domestic violent extremism, cybersecurity, crisis leadership, and societal resilience. This online graduate certificate in HSEM is a great credential to create new career opportunities and can be used to get a head start toward a master's degree. Up to 12 credits of graduate courses can be taken while concurrently enrolled in a degree program and this graduate certificate program may be double-counted towards the requirements for both.
Students will analyze and propose new approaches for the grand challenges our country faces in the homeland security enterprise. Idaho State University’s Homeland Security and Emergency Management (HSEM) graduate certificate program consists of 12 credits delivered in an asynchronous online format for flexibility. Participants select four HSEM Graduate level courses, one of which must include HSEM 5510 Systems Thinking and Sensemaking of Homeland Security Issues.
Course List
Code
Title
Credits
Required Courses
HSEM 5510
Systems Thinking & Sensemaking of Homeland Sec Issues
3
Choose three additional HSEM courses (9 credits) from the list below:
HSEM 5520
Societal Resilience
3
HSEM 5530
Analyzing Risk and Protecting Critical Systems
3
HSEM 5540
Health and Medical Disaster Management
3
HSEM 5570
Successful HSEM Leadership
3
HSEM 6610
Cyber Threats and Security
3
HSEM 6620
Intelligence, Terrorism, and Domestic Violent Extremism
3
HSEM 6650
Multidisciplinary Approaches to Homeland Security
3
Student Learning Outcomes
Students will engage in intellectual discourse to grow an understanding of the homeland security enterprise that is responsible to the community and the world at large.
Students will develop ethical leadership skills, providing them with a competitive edge within their field, and opening doors into management and executive-level positions.
Leaders prepared by this program will have the general knowledge and practical faculty to be active participants in critical reflection and analysis, professional collaboration, effective implementation of policies and procedures, and the development of excellent supportive networking skills.
Graduates with this Graduate Certificate will pursue careers that enhance the safety and security of our communities, and safeguard the lives of citizens.
Admission Requirements
For Admission into the Homeland Security and Emergency Management Graduate Certificate Program, applicants must satisfy the following criteria:
The student must apply to and meet all criteria for admission to the Graduate School.
Have a cumulative undergraduate grade point of at least 3.0 in upper-division (3000-4000 level) courses. All applicants must submit official college transcripts to the ISU Graduate School.
Submit two letters of recommendation from a non-relative individual familiar with the applicant’s academic or professional abilities (no personal references).
Submit a self-assessment essay (five pages, single-spaced) describing the applicant’s interest in pursuing the Homeland Security and Emergency Management Graduate Certificate and vision of how it will facilitate the applicant’s career goals.
International students who have not graduated from an accredited college or university in the United States, and whose native language is not English, must achieve satisfactory scores on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). Satisfactory TOEFL requirements for classified admission are described in the Idaho State University Graduate Catalog under “Admission of International Students.”