Link: https://coursecat.isu.edu/graduate/college-of-health/community-and-public-health/certpublichealth/
Online Certificate in Public Health
Admission Requirements
For Admission into the Public Health (PH) Certificate Program, applicants must satisfy the following criteria:
The student must apply to and meet all criteria for admission to the Graduate School.
Have a cumulative undergraduate grade point of at least 3.0 in upper-division (3000-4000 level) courses. All applicants must submit official college transcripts to the ISU Graduate School.
Completion of college algebra, statistics, or an upper-division math course is highly recommended.
Submit one letter of recommendation from a non-relative individual familiar with applicant's academic or professional abilities (no personal references).
Submit a typed essay (one to two pages, single-spaced) describing applicant's interest in pursuing the Graduate Certificate in Public Health and vision of how it will facilitate the applicant's career goals.
International students who have not graduated from an accredited college or university in the United States, and whose native language is not English, must achieve satisfactory scores on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). Satisfactory TOEFL requirements for classified admission are described in the Idaho State University Graduate Catalog under "Admission of International Students." In addition, international student applicants who have not graduated from an accredited college or university in the United States must take the GRE and are required to score in the 40th percentile on at least one area of the GRE, but no lower than the 20th percentile on the other sections.
General Requirements
Students pursuing the Graduate Certificate in Public Health must complete a minimum of 18 credits of coursework with a GPA of 3.0 or better.
Students who complete and are awarded the Graduate Certificate in Public Health may transfer up to 12 credits from the certificate program into the MPH program. Admission and completion of the certificate do not guarantee admission into the MPH program. Courses completed in the certificate program must have a grade of B or above to transfer into the MPH program.
Course List
Code
Title
Credits
MPH 6601
Applications in Epidemiology
3
MPH 6602
Biostatistics
3
MPH 6605
Leadership Policy and Administration
3
MPH 6606
Environmental and Occupational Health
3
MPH 6620
Health Program Planning and Evaluation
3
MPH 6660
Behavior Change Theory and Applications
3