Link: https://coursecat.isu.edu/graduate/college-of-health/school-of-nursing/msnursing/fnp-pmhnp/
Online FNP to PMHNP Certificate Program
The FNP to PMHNP Certificate program is designed to extend the licensure and expertise of licensed FNP’s. Students completing the certificate rpogram meet requirements to take the PMHNP board certification exam.
Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner (PMHNP)
The Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner is prepared to provide psychiatric mental health care along the wellness- illness continuum, effectively evaluate clinical outcomes, identify and manage primary and acute mental health care needs of individuals with extension of expertise to families and communities.
FNP to PMHNP Certificate Program Outcomes
1. Assume interprofessional PMHNP clinical practice and health care delivery to rural and diverse populations.
2. Integrate psychiatric and mental health evidence-based care into existing FNP practice for individuals, families, and communities to improve outcomes.
Admission Requirements
The student must apply to and meet all requirements for admission and application to the ISU Graduate School. In addition to the general requirements of the Graduate School, the following are required:
Current and unencumbered FNP license
Current national FNP certification
Two years experience as an FNP
Minimum of a Master’s degree in Nursing
FNP program (Master’s or doctoral) transcripts reflecting GPA of 3.0 or higher
Application requirements
The student must apply to and meet all requirements for admission to the Graduate School. In addition to the general requirements of the Graduate School, the following is required:
Application through the ISU Graduate School website with payment of appropriate fees.
Submission directly to the Graduate School of official transcripts of all degrees including the completion of the Master of Science in Nursing (MSN or MS) from an accredited nursing program. Official transcripts must be sent directly to the Graduate School from the Registrar's office of the applicant's previous institution(s) of study.
Submission of professional essay (See application in CollegeNet for essay instructions).
Three professional references attesting to the applicant’s FNP clinical competence. All forms are sent through the ISU Graduate School application system.
Submission of professional vitae or resume through the ISU Graduate School application system.
POST-MASTER'S CERTIFICATE APPLICANTS ONLY:
The Post Master's applicants must provide proof of certification as an FNP.
Selection Schedule for the PMHNP Certificate Program
Application for the FNP to PMHNP certificate program will open in September of any academic year. Preference will be given to applicants submitted by December 1 of any year. Admission is contingent on sufficient enrollment as defined by the School of Nursing. Applications are accepted on a rolling basis until the class is filled. All application and admission requirements as posted on the website for the FNP to PMHNP certificate program apply. Notification of applicants selected for admission and alternates will begin in April of any year.
Progression of Graduate Students
Progression criteria established by the SON and Graduate School. Each SON graduate program or option has specific progression requirements established within the SON. These policies are made available in specific program option Student Handbooks provided upon admission. Students are admitted and enter into an established curricular plan of study and must maintain that plan of study in order to progress.
Certificate Completion Criteria
To qualify for receiving the PMHNP Certificate from the School of Nursing, the student must:
Meet all requirements established by ISU, the Graduate School, and the School of Nursing specific to the program in which the student is enrolled.
First Year
Fall
Credits
Spring
Credits
NURS 6630
2
NURS 7745
4
NURS 6650
3
NURS 7745L
3
5
7
Second Year
Fall
Credits
Spring
Credits
NURS 7755L
2
NURS 7798L
4
NURS 7795
3
NURS 7795L
2
7
4
Total Credits: 23