Link: https://www.isu.edu/spel/educational-leadership-programs/p-12-education-administration-med/
P-12 Education Administration, M.Ed.
Prepare to be an effective school principal with the Master of Education in P-12 Education Administration program by leading faculty, staff, and students to accomplish academic goals.
Program Information
The
Master of Education in P-12 Education Administration
aligns with the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation standards and is designed for educators and K-12 teachers who are looking to move into an education administrator role.
As a
school principal,
you will have the opportunity to mentor teachers, work directly with students, and
set the vision for your educational institution.
If student and faculty needs come first, and you want to p
lay a vital role in making key decisions regarding curriculum, teaching strategies, and extracurricular activities, then
a career as principal may be right for you!
100% online
program that enrolls
students with a degree
in an education-related field and have educator licensure from any state.
No entry exams
with part-time enrollment
options tailored towards working professionals.
All graduate students can learn more about
qualifying for scholarships and in-state tuition
.
Program outcomes are officially as follows:
Outcome 1
use data to prioritize and improve learning outcomes for all students
Outcome 2
advance teacher professional capacity and evaluate teacher effectiveness
Outcome 3
create a school culture that sustains ongoing improvement efforts to increase student achievement
Outcome 4
manage the operational systems within a school legally, ethically, and effectively
Outcome 5
advocate effectively for student success and engage with all stakeholders to achieve school goals (internal and external to the school)
Meet with our Graduate Studies Director
Application, Funding, and Support
Apply
Request More Information
Graduate Application Fee Waiver
Cost
Admissions
Curriculum
Career Opportunities
Job Outlook
Program and Admission Requirements
The
Master of Education in Educational Administration
is designed to strengthen a candidate's knowledge, skills, and dispositions in the
Core Standards for Advanced Professionals
and
Idaho State University Department of Educational Leadership Standards for Educational Leaders
(which parallel the Idaho standards for school principals).
Admission Information:
Meet the
ISU Graduate School admissions requirements
Hold a Bachelor's degree in education or a related field from a regionally accredited institution
Have a minimum of 3.0 GPA in upper division undergraduate coursework
Have at least one year of K-12 teaching experience or equivalent documented experience
Submit a letter of interest, stating why the applicant is interested in the M.Ed. in Educational Administration
Submit a current resume with names and contact information for at least 2 professional references
This M.ED. requires a minimum of 31 credits:
9 credits in “core” professional studies courses
18 credits in Educational Administration emphasis courses
3 credits of internship
1 credit of case study
Candidates who already have a master's degree in an education-related field may choose to complete the
K-12 Principal Endorsement Graduate Certificate.
ISU Course Catalog
P-12 Education Administration, MEd
Career Opportunities
Public School Principal
Private School Principal
State Departments of Education
Alternative School Principal
School Capacity Building
Charter School Principal
Textbook Consultant
Education Policy Consultant
Central Office Administrator
Job Outlook
Because P-12 education administrators are highly desirable in today’s job market, the job outlook includes:
Average salary (according to the government’s Occupational Outlook Handbook) is $103,460 for an elementary, middle, or high school principal.
Near 100% job placement upon successful completion.
Geoffrey Thomas, EdD
Assistant Professor
Office: College of Education 381
(208) 282-4322
geoffreythomas@isu.edu
Contact Us
spel@isu.edu
(208) 282-3906
School Psychology and Educational LeadershipGarrison Hall, Room 617921 S. 8th Ave., Stop 8081 Pocatello, Idaho 83209
Request Information
Provide Feedback
@IdahoStateEd