Link: https://www.isu.edu/spel/educational-leadership-programs/p-12-education-administration-eds/
P-12 Education Administration, EdS
Program Information
Introducing the ED.S. Accelerated Cohort Program
Cohort start date August 2023
Graduate in 5 semesters - May 2025
30 credits | 24 core and 6 elective credits
Two 8-week courses per semester
All courses offered online using virtual technologies
Earn Idaho Superintendent Endorsement
All 30 credits can be applied toward a Doctorate (Ed.D.) in P-12 Administration
A great superintendent responds effectively to multiple district constituencies!
Prepare to be an effective school superintendent with the Education Specialist in Education Administration program
. Leading administrators to accomplish goals, building relationships among the school board, teachers, students, parents, staff, and the community toward increased student achievement is the multi-faceted challenge of a superintendent as an education administrator.
The Education Specialist in Education Administration, EdS aligns with the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation standards. If you are guided by the best path for students, you have the heart of a great superintendent!
Educational Leadership Course Rotation
Meet with our Graduate Studies Director
Application, Funding, and Support
Apply
Request More Information
Graduate Application Fee Waiver
Cost
Admissions
Curriculum
Career Opportunities
Job Outlook
Admission and Program Requirements
The Ed.S. in Educational Administration requires a minimum of 30 credits:
21 credits in Educational Administration emphasis courses
3 credits of practicum
6 credits of electives
A candidate with a master's degree in an area other than educational administration may be required to take additional coursework equivalent to that required in the administration degree and must meet initial Idaho administrative certification requirements.
ISU Course Catalog
Education Administration, Ed.S.
Career Opportunities
Graduates with a degree in education administration could be qualified for the following types of positions:
Public School Superintendent
Central Office Administrator
State Departments of Education
Agency or Council Consultant
School Capacity Building
Textbook Consultant
Education Policy Consultant
Job Outlook
Because education administrators are highly desirable in today’s job market, the job outlook includes:
Average salary (according to the government’s Occupational Outlook Handbook) is $106.690 for Educational Administrators, Kindergarten through secondary.
Geoffrey Thomas, EdD
Assistant Professor
Office: College of Education 381
(208) 282-4322
geoffreythomas@isu.edu
Contact Us
spel@isu.edu
(208) 282-3906
School Psychology and Educational LeadershipGarrison Hall, Room 617921 S. 8th Ave., Stop 8081 Pocatello, Idaho 83209
Request Information
Provide Feedback
@IdahoStateEd