Link: https://www.isu.edu/pharmacytechnology/
Pharmacy Technology Program
Program Description
The Pharmacy Technology program prepares graduates for positions working under the supervision of a licensed and registered pharmacist in retail and institutional pharmacy practice settings. Students completing the program will have a basic understanding of anatomy, physiology, medical terminology, pharmacy law, and the therapeutic classification and use of the top-200 prescription drugs.
Students will develop skills in pharmaceutical preparation, maintaining patient profiles or records, sterile products preparation, performing stocking procedures, communication and computer operations to enter, store, and recall patient information.
Approximately 12-14 students are admitted to the program each fall semester. Course requirements prior to the technical pharmacy courses are open to all students who meet specific course prerequisites. The Advanced Technical Certificate can be obtained in 1.5 years and the Basic Technical Certificate can be completed in 1 year.
Graduates Employed or Continuing Education Five-Year Average
100%
Average Idaho Income
$35,270 - $45,320
Program Overview
Program accepts students in August
Requires 1 year to complete if prerequisites have been met (Fall semester, Spring semester, and Summer term)
Program requires the successful completion of  28 credits for the BTC and 53 credit hours for the ATC including prerequisites
Divided into three components: seated and online instruction, laboratory demonstrations and practice, and practicum/externship placements
Practicum/externship placements may require working evening or weekend hours
Licensure: Pharmacy Technology students are required to register with the Idaho State board of pharmacy to participate in experiential training and for employment.  Students will acquire a state registration during the first semester of lab classes.  Students will be required to pass a background check and fingerprinting based on requirements from the state.  For more information visit
https://dopl.idaho.gov/bop/bop-pharmacy-technicians/
Certifications: Students will have the opportunity to earn two certifications (Sterile and Non sterile Compounding) and be trained to administer immunizations
Upon successful completion of the program, the student is prepared to sit for the Pharmacy Technician National Certification Exam
National exam: The PTCB national certification exam is designed to evaluate knowledge and skills relevant to the pharmacy technician field at the national level. Although certification is not required to work in a pharmacy within the state of Idaho, completing this certification can enhance career prospects and provide a competitive advantage for graduates.  Students will register to take the exam during the last semester of program classes and take a certification review course to help prepare for the exam.  Once the exam is taken and passed, you are required to renew every two years and complete 20 hours of continuing education.  Graduation pass rate on the exam is 78%. For more details please visit.
https://www.ptcb.org/
The Pharmacy Technology program is nationally accredited through the
ASHP/ACPE
Regulations of Pharmacy Technicians training programs.  ASHP sets the standards to protect the public, serve a guide for pharmacy technician education and development, provide the criteria for evaluations of new and established training programs along with promoting continuous improvement of established programs.
Degree Options
Basic Technical Certificate (BTC) (1 year)
Course Sequence
Basic Technical Certificate: Pharmacy Technology
Program Costs
Advanced Technical Certificate (ATC) (1.5 years)
Course Sequence
Advanced Technical Certificate: Pharmacy Technology
Program Costs
This program participates in the
CTE Advanced Opportunities program
which allows high school students to earn college credit in technical programs, while still in high school.
Career Advancement
With your Advanced Technical Certificate in Pharmacy Technology, national certification in the field, and some work experience, you may consider additional educational and career growth opportunities such as:
an AS or AAS degree in a health occupation or business technology field.
a BSHS degree that would open the way to managerial positions in health professions.
post-graduate education in a number of health-related disciplines.
Career Opportunities
Out-Patient Rehabilitation Clinics
Hospital or other institutional settings
Program Requirements
High School Diploma or GED
Students must be qualified for college level coursework in English and Math (See an advisor for details)
Completion of a criminal background check and drug screening
Completion of the following courses with a grade of C or better for the Advanced Technical Certificate:
HO 0106 Medical Terminology
BT 0170 Introduction to Computers
Minimum Test Scores
SAT
Math: 500
ACT
Math: 19
ALEKS
Math: 30
Programs Related to Pharmacy Technology
College of Technology
All Programs
Pharmacy Technology
Course Sequence
Program Costs
+
Advanced Technical Certificate
Basic Technical Certificate
Meet Your Instructors
View the Virtual Tour
Program Handbook & Forms
Program/ Student Outcomes
Contact Us
ctech@isu.edu
(208) 282-2800
Apply Now
Schedule a Tour
Request Information