Link: https://coursecat.isu.edu/graduate/scienceengineering/geosciences/postbacgeotechcert/
Post-Baccalaureate GeoTechnology Certificate
Goals
Graduates will have the knowledge and skills necessary to apply Geotechnology in their chosen careers or fields of interest.
Graduates will have the background to compete successfully for industrial and academic positions.
Objectives
Learn and perform techniques in Geographic Information Systems, Global Positioning Systems, Remote Sensing, and related skills.
Increase knowledge of how geotechnical applications are incorporated into research, education, and industry.
Increase knowledge of geotechnical workforce needs and the future directions of geotechnological applications.
The Graduate Certificate in GeoTechnology is offered to students who wish to become proficient in the collection, management, and analysis of spatial data. Courses in three disciplines — geographic information systems (GIS), global positioning systems (GPS), and remote sensing—are used to teach the theory and application of GeoTechnology. Students may pursue the Certificate independently or in conjunction with another Idaho State University degree.
Admission Requirements
Classified admission is necessary to complete the Certificate and is recommended by the graduate faculty of the Geosciences Department in accordance with standards set by the Graduate School. Applicants must have a bachelor’s degree from an accredited school and meet the Graduate School admission requirements. All applicants must submit an application to the Graduate School.
Students will complete 14 credits of required coursework and 5 credits of elective coursework to obtain the Certificate. The following courses are relevant:
Course List
Code
Title
Credits
Core Courses:
14
GEOL 5503
Principles of Geographical Information System
GEOL 5504
Advanced Geographic Information Systems
GEOL 5507
GPS/GNSS Applications in Research
GEOL 5508
GeoTechnology Seminar
or
BIOL 5518
Ecological Topics
GEOL 5509
Remote Sensing
Electives
5
ANTH 5582
Independent Problems in Anthropology
BIOL 5582
Independent Problems
GEOL 5527
Information Technology for GIS
GEOL 5528
Programming for GIS
GEOL 5580
Special Topics in GIS
GEOL 5581
GeoTechnology Internship
GEOL 6607
Spatial Analysis
GEOL 6608
Geostatistics Spatial Data Analysis and Modeling
GEOL 6611
UAS Applications for the Geosciences
GEOL 6628
Advanced GIS Programming
GEOL 6648
Research Problems
Total Credits
19
For current information regarding GIS Center and courses, see the website:
http://giscenter.isu.edu.