Link: https://coursecat.isu.edu/undergraduate/college-of-health/school-of-rehabilitation-and-communication-sciences/communication-sciences-and-disorders/pre-prof-cert-aud/
Pre-Professional Certificate in Pre-Audiology
The Audiology Pre-Professional Program is for students with a BA, BS, or higher degree in fields unrelated to Communication Sciences and Disorders. The Pre-Professional Program consists of undergraduate courses required for graduate-level coursework. The sequence below will provide the foundational coursework necessary to enter the regular course sequence of the Doctor of Audiology (Au.D.) Program at Idaho State University.
Program Requirements
Course List
Code
Title
Credits
CSD 2256
Deaf Culture and Community
3
CSD 3310
Speech Science: The Acoustical Nature of Sound and Speech
3
CSD 3340
Communication Development and Disorders: Lifetime Perspective
3
CSD 3341
Audiometry and Hearing Science
3
CSD 4405
Neuroscience for Communication Disorders
3
CSD 4445
Aural Rehabilitation
3
CSD 4460
Educational Audiology
3
The following courses are highly recommended, but not required.
CSD 1151
American Sign Language I
1
CSD 4416
Audiology Methods and Applications
1
CSD 4417
Interdisciplinary Evaluation Team
1
CSD 4415
Clinical Practicum in Audiology
1
All requirements must be completed with a minimum GPA of 2.25 and all courses must be completed with a letter grade of “C-” or better.
Total Credits
21
An undergraduate course in statistics or experimental design is required to complete the Au.D. if not taken as an undergraduate. This may also be taken as a graduate student elective.
A background in Sign Language is strongly encouraged. There is not a specific course required, but basic sign language skills are beneficial to you as a communication professional.
Successful completion of the Pre-Professional Program does
NOT
ensure the student a seat in the Doctor of Audiology Program. Students must apply by February 1
st
of the year he/she would like to enter the Doctor of Audiology Program.