Link: https://coursecat.isu.edu/undergraduate/college-of-health/school-of-rehabilitation-and-communication-sciences/communication-sciences-and-disorders/pre-prof-cert-spl/
Pre-Professional Certificate in Pre-Speech-Language Pathology
The Speech-Language Pathology Pre-Professional Program is for students with a BA, BS, or higher degree in fields unrelated to Communication Sciences and Disorders. The Pre-Professional Program consists of undergraduate courses required for graduate-level coursework in Speech-Language Pathology, where an Academic Certificate is earned upon completion of the coursework.  The Academic Certificate provides evidence of completion of pre-leveling coursework for admission to graduate school and/or licensure requirements. The sequence below will provide the foundational coursework necessary to apply for, and if accepted, enter the regular course sequence of the M.S. in Speech-Language Pathology program at Idaho State University.
Program Requirements
Course List
Code
Title
Credits
CSD 3310
Speech Science: The Acoustical Nature of Sound and Speech
3
CSD 3315
Clinical Processes Pediatric
2
CSD 3321
Clinical Phonetics and Phonology
3
CSD 3325
&
3325L
Speech Sound Development and Disorders
and Speech Sound Development and Disorders Lab
4
CSD 3330
Language Science
3
CSD 3335
Language Development and Disorders
3
CSD 3341
Audiometry and Hearing Science
3
CSD 3350
&
3350L
Anatomy & Physiology of the Speech and Swallowing Mechanisms
and Anatomy & Physiology of the Speech and Swallowing Mechanisms Lab
4
CSD 4405
Neuroscience for Communication Disorders
3
CSD 4445
Aural Rehabilitation
3
CSD 4420
Clinical Processes Adult
2
CSD 4460
Educational Audiology
3
The following courses are highly recommended, but not required.
CSD 4417
Interdisciplinary Evaluation Team
1
CSD 4425
Speech Language Pathology Methods and Application
Total Credits
36
Prior to or during the Pre-Professional year, students applying to our Master of Science in Speech-Language Pathology graduate program must show evidence of having taken the following:
Biological sciences:
At least a 100-level university course with a content area related to human or animal sciences: includes anatomy, biology, cell and molecular biology, computational biology, ecology and evolution, environmental biology, forensic biology, genetics, marine biology, microbiology, molecular biosciences, natural sciences, neurobiology, neurology, physiology, and zoology. CSD Anatomy and Physiology is not acceptable.
Physical sciences course:
At least a 100-level university course.
Must
be either Physics (recommended) or Chemistry.
Statistics:
At least a 100-level university course. An acceptable description would include topics such as descriptive statistics, probability, inferential, correlation, and regression, measures of central tendency, t-tests, ANOVA, and hypothesis testing for one and two parameters. The course may be under Math, Statistics, Psychology, or Business as long as it meets the above criteria.
If your statistics course is older than 10 years, it is highly recommended you retake it.
Social/Behavioral Sciences course:
At least a 100-level university course. Includes Psychology, Sociology and Anthropology
A background in Sign Language is strongly encouraged. There is not a specific course required, but basic sign language skills are beneficial to you as a communication professional.
Successful completion of the Pre-Professional Program does
NOT
ensure the student a seat in the Master of Science in Speech-Language Pathology Program. Students must apply by February 1
st
of the year he/she would like to enter the Master’s Program.