Link: https://www.isu.edu/slp/programs/pre-professional-program/
Pre-Professional Academic Certificate Program
Apply
Course Sequence & Description
ISU offers a Speech-Language Pathology Pre-Professional Program (post-baccalaureate) for students with a B.A., B.S., or higher degree in fields other than Communication Sciences and Disorders, or for those students whose bachelor's degree in Communication Sciences and Disorders is 10 years or older. If you are admitted into the Master's Program, your Communication Sciences and Disorders coursework should not be older than 10 years from the start date of your program of study.
Enrolling in the Pre-Professional Program will not guarantee you a seat in the graduate program.
The Pre-Professional Program consists of undergraduate courses required for graduate-level coursework in Speech-Language Pathology. Upon completion of the program, students will earn the Pre-Professional Certificate in Pre-Speech-Language Pathology or Pre-Audiology. The curriculum is rich in the scientific foundations of audiology and speech-language pathology, typical speech, language, and hearing development and disorders, and clinical courses designed to prepare students to work with children and adults in graduate training. The Pre-Professional Certificate provides documentation of completion of leveling coursework for applying to graduate schools and/or professional licensing boards. The program is available online as well as on the Pocatello or Meridian campus.
Minimum requirements to apply to the Master of Science in SLP program
Program Requirements
for the Pre-Professional Certificate in Pre-Speech-Language Pathology or Pre-Audiology
The
CSD Intent Form
is required for all students wishing to enroll in the Pre-Professional Program. Please complete the form in its entirety. If there are any questions, please contact our office. See the contact information below.
The Pre-Professional Certificate courses are undergraduate courses, but for financial aid purposes, the courses are considered post-baccalaureate courses. Financial aid is available, if you qualify, through the financial aid department. If applying for financial aid, be sure to note on the financial aid application that this is a post-baccalaureate program and is required for entrance into a graduate program. If you have questions, please contact Financial Aid at 208-282-2756 or by email at
finaidem@isu.edu
. See
Program Costs
for detailed tuition information.
Pre-professional program and CSD undergraduate course fee:
$192 per credit hour (does not include tuition)
Questions regarding the Pre-Professional Certificate Programs:
Online Program: Please contact Donna Parker at
olcsd@isu.edu
or 208-373-1942.
Meridian Campus: Please contact Hannah Akina at
csdmeridian@isu.edu
or 208-373-1908.
Pocatello Campus: Please contact Lexie Baker at
csd@isu.edu
or 208-282-4544.
Program Learning Outcomes
Students completing the Pre-Professional Academic Certificate in Communication Sciences and Disorders should be able to:
Understand the basic processes and influences related to human communication including developmental, biological, neurological, acoustic, psychological, and cultural conditions.
Explain the basic foundational aspects of typical and disordered communication including areas of prevention, evaluation, intervention, and treatment.
Demonstrate the emergence of effective written, oral, and critical thinking skills related to topics in communication sciences and disorders.
Have completed the necessary coursework to prepare them to apply for admission to graduate programs in Speech-Language Pathology or Audiology.