Link: https://www.isu.edu/respiratorytherapy/
Respiratory Therapy
Program Description
Respiratory Therapists administer respiratory therapy care and life support to patients with deficiencies and abnormalities of the cardiopulmonary system. More specifically, you will be assessing patients, determining the most appropriate methods of therapies, setting up and operating equipment, monitoring the patient's response to various treatment modalities, performing pulmonary function testing, and assisting patients with breathing maneuvers.
The Idaho State University Respiratory Therapy Program, Program Number #200511, Associate of Science degree: Respiratory Therapy, in Pocatello Idaho, is accredited by the
Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care
.
264 Precision Blvd.
Telford, TN 37690
(817) 283-2835
CoARC Programmatic
Outcomes Data
Program Number #200511
Graduates Employed or Continuing Education Five-Year Average
90%
Average Idaho Income
$62,550 - $72,810
Program Overview
Program starts in August
Pre-requisite courses and an
application
are required for admission into the program
Program admits 15 students each year
Program contains elements of on-line instruction, required face-to-face contact for clinical instruction and skills sign-off, and clinical experience rotations in a variety of work settings.
Program is located in Roy F. Christensen Complex (RFC), Building #48,
777 Memorial Dr
.
Degree Options
Associate of Science degree: Respiratory Therapy
Course Sequence
Associate of Science Degree: Respiratory Therapy
(3 years)
Course Sequence
Associate of Science degree: Respiratory Therapy – Accelerated Track
(2 years)
Costs
Bachelor of Science degree: Respiratory Therapy, non ISU A.S. or A.A.S.
The Bachelor of Science in Respiratory Care is a completion program for graduates of an associate degree in respiratory care (therapy) from a regionally accredited institution.  Idaho State University graduates with an Associate of Science in Respiratory Therapy will complete 29 upper division credits to complete the Bachelor of Science in Respiratory Care. For students transferring from other institutions, transfer coursework will be evaluated course-by-course and credit deficits in general education, lower division, and upper division credits must be completed prior to acceptance to the program.
Course Sequence
Bachelor Of Science - Respiratory Therapy
(2 years)
Bachelor of Science in Health Science
Bachelor of Science in Health Science
(4+ years)
For special application procedures contact CTech Student Services
(208) 282-2622
.
Program Goals
To prepare graduates with demonstrated competence in the cognitive (knowledge), psychomotor (skills), and affective (behavior) learning domains of respiratory care practice as performed by registered respiratory therapists (RRTs).
Career Opportunities
Hospitals
Nursing care facilities
ECMO Specialists
Neonatal Care Units
Sleep labs
Pulmonary function labs
Home care
Durable medical equipment companies
Traveling Contracts
Life Flight
Program Application Documents
Programs Related to Respiratory Therapy
College of Technology
All Programs
Respiratory Therapy
Course Sequence
Program Costs
RT Application
Meet Your Instructors
Program Handbook & Forms
Program/ Student Outcomes
Contact Us
ctech@isu.edu
(208) 282-2800
Apply Now
Schedule a Tour
Request Information