Link: https://www.isu.edu/spel/educational-leadership-programs/special-education-endorsement-graduate-certificate/
Special Education Endorsement Graduate Certificate
Being a special education director is a challenging and rewarding career for the right individual. The Idaho State University
Special Education Director
Endorsement Graduate Certificate
is for P-12 educators with a master's degree in educational administration who seek to become a special education director. The program has an emphasis on special education leadership and administration.
Individuals with a master's degree in P-12 educational administration can complete a sequence of courses to receive a 15-credit graduate certificate and be eligible for an institutional recommendation from the College of Education to add the Special Education Director Endorsement to their Standard Instructional Certificate. Please contact our graduate studies director to learn more.
Meet with our Graduate Studies Director
Application, Funding, and Support
Apply
Request More Information
Graduate Application Fee Waiver
Cost
Admissions
Curriculum
Required Courses
Admission
Meet the
ISU Graduate School admissions requirements
Some programs require additional information (e.g., letters of recommendation); please contact the specific department and review individual departmental sections of this catalog for additional requirements
ISU Course Catalog
Idaho Special Education Director Endorsement Certificate
Required Courses
Educational Administration Emphasis Courses (12 credits)
EDLA 7724 Data-informed Instructional Leadership 3 credits
SPED 5538 Policies and Procedures in Special Education 3 credits
SPED 5500 Creating Inclusive Classrooms 3 credits
SPED 6632 Administration of Special Education 3 credits
Internship (3 credits)
SPED 6639 Internship 3 credits
The internship may take more than one semester to complete. The internship requires 150 hours working with a practicing special education director. The candidate must register for 2 credits the first semester of internship and at least 1 credit in each additional semester (including summers) for continuous enrollment until the internship is complete.
Dr. Geoff Thomas
Assistant Professor
Office: College of Education 381
(208) 282-4322
geoffreythomas@isu.edu
Contact Us
spel@isu.edu
(208) 282-3906
School Psychology and Educational LeadershipGarrison Hall, Room 617921 S. 8th Ave., Stop 8081 Pocatello, Idaho 83209
Request Information
Provide Feedback
@IdahoStateEd