Link: https://www.isu.edu/geomatics/
Surveying and Geomatics Engineering Technology
Program Description
Surveying and Geomatics professionals measure and map the surface of the earth, airspace, waterways and establish official boundaries in land while using the latest software, satellite, sonar, 3D scanning and drone technology.
The curriculum offers options for individuals interested in a surveying and geomatics career at both the professional and technician levels.  Experienced, professional licensed instructors teach fully online or in a traditional classroom setting.
Individuals may transfer equivalent surveying credits from another institution to ISU to count toward a degree or certificate.
Learn more about the profession here.
Program Overview
Program begins in August and January
Program is offered in Pocatello and through Online Learning
The Surveying and Geomatics Engineering Technology program is accredited by the Engineering Technology Accreditation Commission of ABET,
http://www.abet.org
The Surveying and Geomatics Engineering Technology program is a recipient of the National Council of Examiners for Engineering and Surveying (NCEES) surveying education award.
Program is located in the Vocational Arts Building #46,
1230 Martin Luther King Jr Memorial Way
Degree Options
Bachelor Degree in Surveying and Geomatics Engineering Technology
Basic Technical Certificate in Surveying
Academic Certificate in Land Surveying
Online Program Option
The Surveying and Geomatics Engineering Technology Program offers all necessary surveying coursework required for a bachelor of science degree from first year to fourth year levels (1000 – 4000) through online learning. For courses that include a laboratory component, the student's local mentor will be responsible for conducting/supervising the laboratory activities.
eISU Nonresident Tuition Waivers are awarded to students in approved eISU fully online programs (program must be listed here:
eISU Online Programs
) who are taking all online courses. For more information about eISU waivers, contact Jody Finnegan at (208) 282-4293 or email
finnjody@isu.edu.
For more information about becoming a mentor view the
Mentor Agreement
.
Career Opportunities
Engineering and surveying companies
Local, state, and federal government agencies
Consultant
Self employed
Graduates Employed or Continuing Education Five-Year Average
100%
Average Idaho Income
$56,240 - $84,450
States Rules and Regulations for Licensure
Many states require a four-year or two-year degree in surveying to satisfy an educational requirement to become licensed as a surveyor.  Some states accept “related” degrees to surveying with the addition of a minimum number of surveying course credits.  This certificate offers ABET EAC accredited courses to meet many state licensing board surveying credit requirements. Click the following link to verify each state’s rules and regulations required for licensure.
https://ncees.org/state-links/
Financial Aid and Scholarships
ISU offers
financial aid
and
scholarships
.  Additional opportunities include state-sponsored scholarships; examples include the
Idaho Opportunity Scholarship for first time students
and
for returning students the Idaho Opportunity Scholarship for Adult Learners
.
Surveying and Geomatics Engineering Technology participates in the Career Path Internship program.  This paid internship provides career experience to students
Career Path Internship Criteria
.
Minimum Test Scores for B.S. Degree
SAT
Math: 500
ACT
Math: 19
ALEKS
Math: 30
Surveying Organizations and Advocacy
Idaho Society of Professional Land Surveyors
(ISPLS)
National Society of Professional Land Surveyors
(NSPS)
National Council of Examiners for Engineers and Surveyors
(NCEES)
Programs Related to Surveying and Geomatics Engineering
College of Technology
All Programs
Surveying and Geomatics Engineering Technology
Degrees
Course Sequence
Program Costs
+
Academic Certificate: Land Surveying
Bachelor of Science: Surveying & Geomatic Eng Tech
Meet Your Instructors
Employment Connections
View the Virtual Tour
Program/ Student Objectives and Outcomes
Program Handbook & Forms
Contact Us
ctech@isu.edu
(208) 282-2800
Apply Now
Schedule a Tour
Request Information