Link: https://www.isu.edu/polisci/undergraduate-programs/
Undergraduate Programs
The Department of Political Science offers two main undergraduate degrees:
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Science
Within the framework of the Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science programs, students may pursue a major in political science or they may choose an emphasis in pre-law. There is no specified curriculum which pre-law students are expected to follow.
An advisory committee has been created to assist students in developing a curriculum that reflects their individual needs. The program phone number is (208) 282-2211, Stop 8073. You can also contact the political science chair,
Dr. Mark McBeth i
f you have any questions. Please visit the
political science
section inside the current undergraduate catalog for more specific information on teachers, classes, and program requirements.
Requirements for the Secondary Teaching Major in Political Science
Requirements for the Elementary Teaching Major in Political Science
Admissions to Undergraduate Programs
General Education Objectives and Learning Outcomes
All students must complete a minimum of 36 credits from the nine Core Objective areas as outlined below. All students must meet Objectives 1 through 6, Objective 9 and choose to meet either Objective 7 or 8. If a student does not meet the minimum credits required (36) once all 9 Core Objective areas have been met, the student must complete additional coursework from any of the outlined Core Objective areas to meet the 36 credit minimum.
Objective 1: ENGL 1102 must be completed with a C- or better.
Objective 5:
Courses with an N notation will apply to Objective 5 as a Natural Science Lecture Course (N).
Courses with an L notation will apply to Objective 5 as a Laboratory Experience (L).
Courses with an H notation will apply to Objective 5 as a Health Science Lecture course (H).
GEOL 1115 & 1115L (N/L) taken prior to Fall 2013 may also be used toward Objective 5.
Students graduating can use WS 2201 towards Objective 6 or Objective 9, but not both.
Student will complete either Objective 7 or 8.
Follow the links below to review the classes in each general education objective.
General Education Objectives
Student Stories
Read the stories of political science students.
Stories
Undergraduate Program Objectives
To gain a well-rounded knowledge of the basic fields of the discipline.
To develop an understanding of how political scientists think, gather evidence, process data, and reach tentative conclusions.
To think critically about political phenomena and thought.
To develop effective oral and written communication skills.
To engage in problem solving, either as an individual researcher or executive or working in teamwork with others.
To be exposed to a rich variety of perspectives and ideas.
To prepare for a career or profession after graduation that is related to the political science major, which includes graduate school.
BA/BS in POLS:
Program Requirements
Minor in Political Science:
Program Requirements
Pre-Law Students
Students interested in pursuing the pre-law track and/or attending law school should meet with Dr. Edward Kammerer. He can be reached at (208) 282-2799 edwardkammerer@isu.edu
Scholarship Opportunities
Scholarships
These are scholarships for declared political science majors.
Beverly B. Bistline Memorial Political Science Scholarship
The Beverly B. Bistline Memorial Political Science Scholarship is awarded to a full-time student majoring in Political Science with an expressed goal of attending Law School. Must demonstrate past involvement in campus or community politics (volunteer participation in an issue or candidate campaign, running for or holding an elected position, participating in a get out & vote campaign, participating in a voter education campaign, lobbying activity, employment as a staff worker for a national or state office holder or other activities of nature). The student must have a minimum 3.00 cumulative GPA. Preference to students with 1. Diverse needs.  2. students who are Sophomore, Junior, or Senior; with priority given to Senior level students.  *NOTE:  preference shall ALWAYS be given to Senior level students first who meet above criteria.  If no eligible applicants can look at Juniors and then Sophomores.* 3. applicants who have best demonstrated a "public service" mentality.   Note; there are 2 separate Bistline Scholarships with similar criteria but different names. You may apply for both, but if awarded CAN NOT receive both. Maximum amount shall cover room, board, tuition fees.
F M Bistline Memorial Political Science Scholarship
The F M Bistline Memorial Political Science Scholarship is awarded to a full-time student majoring in Political Science with an expressed goal of attending Law School. Must demonstrate past involvement in campus or community politics (volunteer participation in an issue or candidate campaign, running for or holding an elected position, participating in a get out & vote campaign, participating in a voter education campaign, lobbying activity, employment as a staff worker for a national or state office holder or other activities of nature). The student must have a minimum 3.00 cumulative GPA. Preference to students with 1. Diverse needs.  2. students who are Sophomore, Junior, or Senior; with priority given to Senior level students.  *NOTE:  preference shall ALWAYS be given to Senior level students first who meet above criteria.  If no eligible applicants can look at Juniors and then Sophomores.* 3. applicants who have best demonstrated a "public service" mentality.   Note; there are 2 separate Bistline Scholarships with similar criteria but different names. You may apply for both, but if awarded CAN NOT receive both. Maximum amount shall cover room, board, tuition fees.
Rick H. Foster Political Science Scholarship
The Rick H. Foster Political Science Scholarship is awarded to any student majoring in Political Science. Must have a 3.00 cumulative GPA or higher.
Peter A, Patricia L, and Peter D McDermott Scholarship
The Peter A., Patricia L., and Peter D. McDermott Scholarship is awarded to a full-time Junior or Senior who is a declared Political Science (Pre-Law) major with a minimum 2.50 cumulative GPA. Must be an Idaho resident and U.S. Citizen with preference given to students from Bannock or Custer counties.
Scholarships with Preference Given to Political Science Majors
These are scholarships with preferences given to political science majors.
Idaho's 5th Greatest Fly Fisherman Scholarship
The Idaho’s 5th Greatest Fly Fisherman Scholarship is awarded to a student in any major and class level. Must be a full-time student with a minimum GPA of 2.0. Student must be an Idaho resident. Preferences are as follows: Half consideration to Fremont County Residents and Half consideration for Political Science Majors.
Pre-Law Scholarships
These scholarships are available for pre-law students. Political Science majors or minors who are planning to go to law school may apply but they will compete with students with other majors who are also pre-law.
Leon and Gwen Manning Pre-Law Scholarship Endowment
The Leon and Gwen Manning Pre-Law Scholarship is awarded to a students whose intention is to continue to law school after completion of undergraduate work at ISU. Recipient shall demonstrate financial need, academic merit, and shall submit at least one letter of recommendation from a member of the ISU faculty. Preference shall be given to students with an exemplary record of public service. Essay required.
Yvonne Dial Memorial Scholarship
The Yvonne Dial Memorial Scholarship is awarded to a student in any major but must be planning on attending Law School. Must be a Junior or Senior and enrolled full-time. Student must have a minimum 3.0 cumulative GPA. Financial need is required. Must be a U.S. citizen. Preference to students who are married.
For more information on scholarship opportunities go to the
Bengal Online Scholarship System
.
Advising and Catalog Information
An advisory committee has been created to assist students in developing a curriculum that reflects their individual needs. The program phone number is (208) 282-2211, Stop 8073. You can also contact the Political Science Chair,
Dr. Mark McBeth
if you have any questions.
Course Catalog--Graduate
Course Catalog--Undergraduate
Course Catalog--Minor in Political Science
Declaring a Major in Political Science
Degree Works at ISU