Link: https://www.isu.edu/olp/undergraduate/workplace-training-and-leadership/#d.en.43641
Workplace Training and Leadership
The 100% online Workplace Training and Leadership program p
repares professionals and career/technical educators for roles in leadership, development, and performance improvement in a variety of organizations.
Program Information
As a student in the
Bachelor of Science in Workplace Training and Leadership
, you will have the opportunity to help individuals, teams and organizations be as effective as possible. This
fully-online, asynchronous program
will allow you to earn your degree at your own pace and develop critical skills and knowledge in organizational leadership, professional education, career/technical education and employee development. Our dedicated faculty are here to support, inspire, and empower you throughout your education and beyond. Join us, and find your future here!
Finish Your Bachelor’s Degree-
We prioritize what matters to you most which is earning your degree!
We accept students from all backgrounds with previous credit from outside accredited institutions.
Competency-Based Equivalency Portfolio Option:
Students who have
at least 10,000 hours of work experience can qualify for a CBE-Portfolio
, which will award 24 elective credits
. These credits can only be applied to a bachelor's degree in Workplace Training and Leadership. There are no extra fees applied for completing this portfolio. Contact an advisor for more information.
Anywhere and at Anytime
- T
he
100% online, asynchronous
(no set meeting time)
program is tailored towards the working professional or busy adult.
Classes are offered with no set time and students can be enrolled part-time or full-time and can start in the fall, spring, or summer semesters.
Gain the Skills Needed to Land Your Dream Job -
This highly versatile degree is desirable in all industries including education, healthcare, career/technical education, government, financial institutions and beyond.
Workplace training and leadership classes include:
Building effective and engaged teams
Decision making and problem solving
High impact leadership
Improving individual and group performance
Strategic planning
Supervising and managing people
Talent development
Application, Funding, and Support
Apply
Request More Information
Cost
Admissions
Certificates and Minors
Curriculum
Career Opportunities
Job Outlook
Idaho State University Admissions Process
For
Undergraduate
Students:
Create an account
with Idaho State University
Materials needed include:
Transcripts or GED
Official ACT or SAT scores
$50 application fee
(waived for graduates of Idaho high schools)
For
Transfer
Students:
Must have a 2.0 or better cumulative GPA in fourteen (14) or more credit hours to apply.
Fill out
the application
$50 application fee (waived for graduates of Idaho high schools)
Submit final official transcript(s) from each college attended. If currently attending, in-progress transcripts are accepted, but a final official transcript must be sent upon completion of coursework.
Certificates and Minors
Competency-Based Equivalency Portfolio Option:
Students who have at least 10,000 hours of work experience can qualify fora CBE-Portfolio
, which will award 24 elective credits. These credits can only be applied to a bachelor's degree in Workplace Training and Leadership. There are no extra fees applied for completing this portfolio. Contact an advisor for more information.
Baccalaureate Certificate in Career and Technical Education
:
The 12 credit Certificate in Career and Technical Education (CTE) supports educators teaching industry trades and professions such as automotive technology, business education, welding, robotics/engineering technology, and more. This certificate allows CTE professionals and teachers to advance in their careers.
Baccalaureate Certificate in Training and Development:
The 15 credit Certificate in Training and Development provides students interested in human resources with a framework for facilitating employee engagement, training, and develop-ment within the professional workplace. Students entering the Bachelor’s in Workplace Training and Leadership are eligible to create the Certificate in Training and Development independent of their major or can accompany their major. Contact an advisor for more information.
Baccalaureate Certificate in Organizational Leadership
:
The 15 credit Baccalaureate Certificate in Organizational Leadership is designed for professionals seeking leadership or managerial positions. The certificate will elevate one’s knowledge of how to lead and inspire others within the professional organization.
Minor in Workplace Training and Leadership:
The 21 credit Minor in Workplace Training and Leadership is intended to provide students i with a suite of skills, knowledge, and experiences in training (design, development, and delivery), and development, which are considered the non-training human development activities in which organizations (private, public, education) engage.
ISU Course Catalog
Bachelor's Degrees
WORKPLACE TRAINING AND LEADERSHIP, BS
WORKPLACE TRAINING AND LEADERSHIP, (CTE OPTION) BS
Minors
MINOR IN WORKPLACE TRAINING AND LEADERSHIP
Certificates
Career and Technical Education
Organizational Leadership
Training and Development
Career Opportunities
Graduates with a Bachelor's Degree in Workplace Training and Leadership could be qualified for the following types of positions across a wide variety of career fields.
Training and Development Director
Supervisor or Manager
Organizational Development Professional
Professional Consultant
Community Relations Coordinator or Manager
Organizational Effectiveness Professional
Retail Associate or Manage
Job Placement and Salaries
Everyone needs workplace training, development and leadership skills in today’s job market. With the knowledge you gain in our program, you can expect:
Near 100% job placement rate
Average salaries, according to the government’s Occupational Outlook Handbook, for a Training and Development Specialist is $61,570 and the median income for a Career/Technical Educator is $68,960.
Alumni jobs include:
Idaho State University
Idaho National Laboratory
Idaho Central Credit Union
State of Idaho
Boise State University
College of Western Idaho
Business Owner/Entrepreneur
Simplot
ITAFOS
Bayer
Southeast Idaho Public Health
Health West
US Air Force
St. Luke's Hospital
and more!
Tracy Gibson, EdD
Clinical Assistant Professor
Office: Garrison 614
(208) 282-5155
tracygibson@isu.edu
Contact Us
olp@isu.edu
(208) 282-3906
Organizational Learning and Performance Department Garrison Hall, Room 618 921 S. 8th Ave., Stop 8081 Pocatello, Idaho 83209
Request Information
Provide Feedback
@IdahoStateEd