Source: https://www.missouristate.edu/EGR/Civil/default.htm

Why major in civil engineering at Missouri State?
Take your classes in top-notch facilities
Have the tools and spaces you need to become a civil engineer. You’ll study and train
                           in
newly renovated labs and classrooms
- all in one building.
Find future job leads
Our program has close ties with many local engineering companies. You can intern/work
                           for them as you complete your degree, which can lead you to full-time jobs.
Receive personalized attention and help
You won’t be lost in the numbers. Small class sizes help you get to know your faculty
                           and classmates.
Make a difference in your community
Like to compete and meet new friends? You can join
engineering clubs, attend events and enter competitions
.
Partners for your success
Missouri State offers engineering in cooperation with
Missouri University of Science and Technology
(Missouri S&T).
This means:
All
your courses are taught on Missouri State’s Springfield campus.
Missouri S&T offers the engineering courses.
Missouri State offers the non-engineering courses.
Your engineering degree will be granted from Missouri S&T.
The cooperative engineering programs are open to all Missouri State students.
Become a civil engineer
Student Spotlight
A future advocate
Luther Harris wants to break down barriers in civil engineering – not just the physical
                                    kind.
Read Luther's story
Careers and outcomes
Explore your potential career paths
Create society's vital structures.
Degree options
Four-Year
Transfer Resources
Go big: Pursue two degrees
As you complete your engineering degree from Missouri S&T, it’s possible to earn a
                           second degree (dual major) from Missouri State at the same time.
Check with your advisor for more details.
Simultaneous Degrees
Resources for current students
Get set for upcoming classes and key deadlines.
Courses and Textbooks
Academic Calendar
Immersive academics
Advisement
Find academic help and guidance
Tour campus
Visit Missouri State in person
Transfer credit
Bring college credit with you to MSU
Facilities and resources
Explore your places to study and learn
Helping you succeed
Scholarships and financial aid
Find support for you education
Student opportunities and services
Get involved on and off campus
Faculty and staff
Meet your department
Frequently asked questions
Find out more information about engineering at Missouri State