Source: https://www.missouristate.edu/EGR/Mechanical/default.htm

Why major in mechanical engineering at Missouri State?
More focus put on you
Meet your next mentor here. Small class sizes mean your professors know more about
                           you and your career goals.
Have classrooms and labs dedicated to engineering
Where you learn:
Brand new facilities
with all the gear you need. You’ll use high-tech equipment to explore the insights
                           of mechanical engineering: control systems, energy conversion, device design/analysis
                           and more.
Get your foot in the door with an internship
Springfield’s home to many engineering companies - and our program has great relationships
                           with them. Your (paid) internship or part-time role could turn into a full-time job
                           when you graduate.
Make connections outside of class
Team up with your professors and classmates on research projects and community events.
                           You can also join
engineering clubs, conferences and competitions
.
Partners for your success
Missouri State offers engineering in cooperation with
Missouri University of Science and Technology
(Missouri S&T).
This means:
All
your courses are taught on
Missouri State’s Springfield campus
.
Missouri S&T offers the engineering courses.
Missouri State offers the non-engineering courses.
Missouri S&T grants your engineering degree.
The cooperative engineering programs are open to all Missouri State students.
Become a mechanical engineer
Student Spotlight
The power of green tech
On the ground or in the air, Ana Torres wants to improve how people travel. She already
                                    has a head start.
Read Ana's story
Careers and outcomes
Explore your potential career paths
Build the devices and machines that people use every day.
Degree options
As you complete your engineering degree from Missouri S&T, it’s possible to earn a
                           second degree (dual major) from Missouri State at the same time.
Four-Year
Dual Major: Mechanical Engineering and Physics
Transfer Resources
Resources for current students
Get set for upcoming classes and key deadlines.
Courses and Textbooks
Academic Calendar
Immersive academics
Advisement
Find academic help and guidance
Tour campus
Visit Missouri State in person
Transfer credit
Bring college credit with you to MSU
Facilities and resources
Explore your places to study and learn
Helping you succeed
Scholarships and financial aid
Find support for you education
Student opportunities and services
Get involved on and off campus
Faculty and staff
Meet your department
Frequently asked questions
Find out more information about engineering at Missouri State