Source: https://care.mst.edu/academic-programs/environmentalengineering/bachelorsdegreeinenvironmentalengineering/

Earn a Bachelor's Degree in Environmental Engineering
Safeguard the natural integrity of air, water, and land by applying today
Environmental engineers protect human lives from environmental causes of disease and improve our standard of living while also looking to minimize impact on the local, regional and global environment. They face unique issues and must have a strong background in the fundamental earth sciences. As problem-solvers for something as diverse as the environment, they also need to understand the most current technologies and have a desire to maintain a high level of learning in their professional careers in this rapidly-evolving field.
Apply now
Want to Know More?
Get info on our program, scholarships, how to visit campus, admissions and more. Take the next step in solving for tomorrow!
Request info
Degree Information
Catalog information
Our bachelor of science degree in environmental engineering requires 129 credit hours. As a first-year student, you will be admitted into the Foundational Engineering and Computing Program, but you can choose an environmental engineering preference as you enter . If you choose this route, you may qualify for scholarships within the civil, architectural and environmental engineering (CArEE) department. You will be fully admitted to the environmental engineering program after successfully completing the first-year requirements.
For more information, check out the university catalog:
Environmental engineering
Freshman engineering
As an engineering freshman, you'll work toward completing common freshman year courses while acquiring information to help you determine a major and career. During the first two or three semesters on campus, you will take a set of courses that are required by all engineering departments. After successfully completing the freshman engineering requirements, you'll formally apply for admission to the CArEE department.
Learn more about the program:
Freshman engineering program
Experiential learning
As part of our goal to advance the professional preparedness of our students, the civil, architectural and environmental engineering department has developed an Experiential Learning Program in coordination with our students’ professional internships. In our Vision 2020 Strategic Plan, enhancing experiential learning opportunities was listed as one of our top priorities. In this program, students on professional or academic internships or fellow programs are required to meet a set of learning objectives to gain the most from their internship.
Experiential learning form
Foundational Engineering
As an incoming student, you'll work toward completing common first-year courses while acquiring information to help you determine a major and career. During the first two or three semesters on campus, you will take a set of courses that are required by all engineering departments. After successfully completing the common
first-year academic requirements
, you'll formally apply for admission to the environmental engineering program within the department of civil, architectural, and environmental engineering. Admission is nearly automatic if you've completed these requirements.
Learn more about the program:
Foundational engineering
Undergraduate Emphasis Areas
Air Pollution and Control
View in catalog
Drinking Water Treatment
View in catalog
Remediation of Contaminated Sites
View in catalog
Public Health and Regulatory Programs
View in catalog
Solid Waste Management
View in catalog
Sanitation and Wastewater Treatment
View in catalog
What Students Say About S&T
“Missouri S&T was the only school that I considered and applied to, as S&T has an environmental engineering major, which was a definite selling point. I also wanted to study abroad, and the amazing programs encouraged me to continue learning French. Through the Global Engineering Program I have an opportunity to study in Lyon, France, for a semester and complete a co-op with a local French company.“
— Jessi Schoolcraft
“When I began college, I was uncertain of my exact path, so I followed my passion for the environmental field. S&T's environmental engineering program provided me with the opportunity to learn about problems facing our environment and the surrounding communities as well as how to design novel solutions. S&T's emphasis on experiential learning has allowed me to apply this knowledge to real-world situations and achieve beyond what I thought was possible.”
— Amanda Rodell
Your Career in Environmental Engineering
Environmental engineers protect human and environmental health through technical skills and caring for people and the environment. Most environmental engineers specialize in areas such as air pollution, drinking water treatment, remediation of contaminated sites, solid waste management and wastewater treatment. Preventing pollution and removing toxic chemicals from the air, rivers, lakes and soil is a skill that takes great understanding, as each problem offers distinctive challenges. Environmental engineers also have opportunities to address sustainable infrastructure in terms of energy and the environment.
Starting Salary
The average salary for S&T students in the last year was $63,892.
Career Fields
Consulting firms
Environmental Protection Agency
Manufacturing or mining industries
State natural resource departments
Public works departments
See the Undergraduate Student Experience
Virtual Tour
Information for Future Students
Explore Other Programs
Financial Aid
Campus Living
Costs and Fees
Visit S&T
Admissions
Follow Civil, Architectural and Environmental Engineering
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
Instagram