Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-degrees/environmental-engineering/

Real Degrees for Working Professionals
Master of Science in Environmental Engineering
Changing the World.
As our society advances, development puts pressure on world resources and ecosystems. Environmental engineers help balance the impact of this development on our environment with solutions that remediate or prevent contamination of air, drinking water, soil and natural systems. The field of environmental engineering is rapidly advancing to encompass many of today’s greatest challenges, such as sustainability, carbon emissions and limited water resources.
Courses in Missouri S&T's environmental engineering graduate degree program focus on engineering analysis that incorporate the fundamental physical, biological and chemical characteristics of natural and engineered environmental systems, while putting these engineering solutions in the context of societal needs and the requirements of environmental laws.
Admission Requirements
Bachelor’s degree in an engineering discipline from an accredited program
Undergraduate GPA ≥ 3.0
International requirement: TOEFL ≥ 80,  or IELTS
≥ 6.5
Graduate Certificates
Your Pathway to a Graduate Degree
Start earning college credit toward a graduate degree. The GRE is not required to enter a certificate program, and credit earned may be applied toward your master’s degree.*
Environmental Engineering Graduate Certificate Program
Geoenvironmental Engineering
Mine Reclaimation
*restrictions may apply
Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply. Check with the academic department for program specific details and requirements.
Learn more about the certificate to master's program
.
Accreditation
Missouri University of Science & Technology is accredited by the
Higher Learning Commission
, one of six regional institutional accreditors in the United States.
Nondegree-seeking enrollment
Prior to acceptance into the program, you may enroll in up to 6 credit hours as a nondegree-seeking (in some cases, post-baccalaureate) student. Enrollment does not guarantee acceptance. Learn more about
nondegree-seeking university student admissions
.
Licensure and disclosures
If you live outside of Missouri and are thinking about enrolling in a program that leads to professional licensure, the University of Missouri System strongly recommends that you check with the relevant licensing board in your state or the state where you plan to work. This will help you obtain the most current information about state licensure requirements before you enroll in any academic program. While Missouri University of Science & Technology strives to provide current licensure information, it's important to note that licensure regulations are subject to change.
For more details, please visit our
licensure and disclosure page
.
State authorization
States require that Missouri University of Science and Technology be authorized to deliver university-level distance/online education to their residents.
The process for authorization varies by state
.
For more details, please visit our
state authorization page
.
Authorized
Students residing in all states are eligible to enroll in this program.
Internships
Internships are encouraged for explore real-life applications of teacher leadership. Find more about available opportunities on
S&T's Career Opportunities
page.
Faculty
Our academic leaders are experts in their respective disciplines and bring extensive experience in higher education, industry, and departmental management. Learn more about the
Civil and Environmental Engineering Faculty
at S&T.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby
Associate Director for Online Admissions
573-341-6903  |
stgrad@mst.edu
Civil, Architectural and Environmental Engineering
William Schonberg, PhD, PE
Assistant Chair for Distance Education and Professor
573-341-4787  |
wschon@mst.edu
Rachel Johnson
Graduate Student Support Specialist
573-341-4470  |
rfjohnson@mst.edu
Department Website:
care.mst.edu