Source: https://education.mst.edu/

Check out this wonderful collaboration between the chemistry department and child development center!
Join the over 100 students pursuing teacher certification at Missouri S&T!
At Missouri S&T, you’re joining a close knit learning community of future teachers. Our engaging, interactive classes are all taught by
full time professors
with extensive teaching experience. You’ll be in education courses starting your first semester, and start working in K-12 schools your second semester in our program.
Technology badges and training are integrated throughout the program, and our graduates are highly sought after by school districts.
Aren’t sure what you want to teach? Still deciding if teaching is for you? We have lots of options, including our new
undergraduate certificate in teaching and learning
, which is just 13 credit hours. Our future high school educators earn both a bachelor’s degree in their content and Missouri teacher certification, giving you options and flexibility.
Our programs are approved by the Missouri Department of Elementary and Secondary Education.  License reciprocity determinations outside of Missouri can be found at
https://teaching.missouri.edu/student/state-authorization/mst/licensure
We have scholarships and other funding opportunities available to cover test fees and background checks, and have chosen low cost textbooks for all education courses.
We have a full time advisor on staff to keep everyone on track, and our B.S. in Education can easily be completed in four years.  Interested?
Apply now
and sign up for a
campus visit
; we’d love to meet you!
NEW FOR FALL 2024:
Online graduate certificate in Teacher Leadership
Undergraduate Programs
Early Childhood
Early childhood graduates earn a Bachelor of Science in Education with an early childhood emphasis and are certified to teach birth-3rd grade in Missouri. We offer opportunities to observe and work with children and families at our on campus S&T Child Development Center while in this program.
Learn More
Elementary
Elementary graduates earn a Bachelor of Science in Education with an elementary emphasis and are certified to teach grades 1-6 in Missouri. We offer embedded Project Lead The Way certification in our STEM-focused elementary program. This degree also allows greater flexibility in customizing your education.
Learn More
Learn more
Middle School
Middle school graduates earn a Bachelor of Science in Education with an emphasis in the content they will teach. Middle school encompasses grades 5-9, and we have programs available in language arts, math, science, and social science
Learn More
Secondary
Secondary graduates earn a bachelor of arts or a bachelor of science in their chosen certifiable area and are certified to teach grades 9-12 in Missouri.
As a secondary education student, you can choose from one of many concentrations.
Learn More
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificate in Teacher Leadership
The graduate certificate in teacher leadership will provide practicing educators with the skills to lead teams to improve teaching and learning; however, this certificate does not result in Missouri educator licensure.  The courses in this graduate certificate may be applied to the non-thesis Master of Science in Biology.  Other programs may accept these courses according to their guidelines.
Learn More
MS in Biological Sciences
Earn a science graduate degree that furthers your knowledge of ecosystems, molecular techniques, human biology and more. This program has a rich history of direct application that you can translate into the classroom today to teach your students how to innovate solutions to the challenging global problems of tomorrow.
Learn More
Centers
Kummer Center for STEM Education
The Kummer Center for Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Education provides equal access and opportunity to underserved, underrepresented, and rural communities in Missouri.
Learn More
Child Development Center
The Missouri S&T Child Development Center is open. This curriculum-based facility enrolls children of faculty, staff, and students of Missouri S&T, as well as community members.
Learn More
South Central Regional Professional Development Center
As an integral part of a state-wide system, the mission of the South Central RPDC is to build the capacity of educators through high quality professional learning to maximize student success. This Center services the south-central region of Missouri, covering thirteen counties and 63 school districts.
Learn More
Project Lead The Way
PLTW is now working with the Kummer Center for STEM Education at Missouri S&T. Together they offer a large variety of equipment, training, events and support for K-12 teachers.
Learn More
Mission Statement
The mission of the Education Department is to provide high quality teachers to school districts in the south central region of Missouri and beyond.
Vision Statement
The vision of the Department is our teachers inspire the next generation of students, particularly those in underrepresented groups, to pursue educational and STEAM career fields by connecting content knowledge to real world application, while creating a safe learning space for students.
View alignment of our programs with
Missouri DESE requirements
.
Follow Education
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram