Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-degrees/engineering-management/

Real Degrees for Working Professionals
Master of Science in Engineering Management
You know how complex projects can get as multiple disciplines come together to deliver results that benefit the public and minimally impact the environment. Engineering management professionals synthesize and monitor these aspects, streamlining projects and improving systems to deliver desired outcomes in a cost-effective and efficient manner.
As you look ahead in your career, understand how to direct projects from concept to completion with an online master of science in engineering management from Missouri University of Science and Technology (Missouri S&T). This non-thesis degree program creates a stepping stone from a specialist role to one where you’ll integrate multiple engineering disciplines to solve problems, improve existing processes and achieve results. Courses highlight the intersection of engineering, management and technology and their real-world applications. You, in turn, will understand how to develop innovative and integrated solutions.
Today, multiple industries recognize how vital engineering management professionals are. Yet, decades before, Missouri S&T pioneered the discipline as a strategy for optimizing projects and systems. Reflecting this, the master’s in engineering management is one of the few programs to be certified by the American Society for Engineering Management. Further attesting to our dedication, innovation and adaptability, the
Engineering Management and Systems Engineering department
celebrated its 50th anniversary in 2016.
As a student of this fully online program, you’ll:
Learn about contemporary engineering management theories and concepts and their applications in managing and operating technology-based organizations
Cultivate leadership and decision-making skills
Strengthen your engineering knowledge and grow your understanding of business and organizational operation principles
Develop a specialty in an area where business, engineering and technology intersect
See what’s involved in achieving project outcomes, including optimally using resources, funding, equipment, information and engineers across multiple disciplines
Prepare to direct projects, streamline systems and meet all objectives in an ethical and sustainable manner
Apply directly, or start exploring the field through an online
graduate certificate in engineering management
. As this master’s program outlines the next stage for many engineers’ careers, you’re advised to take advantage of any continuing education benefits offered through your employer to complete your degree.
Admission Requirements
Bachelor’s degree in engineering, applied mathematics, computer science or a physical science
Undergraduate GPA ≥ 3.0
Undergraduate courses: Calculus Series (I, II, III), Differential Equations, Statistics, Physics (I, II) or Chemistry, Engineering Economy
International requirement: TOEFL ≥ 80 or IELTS
≥ 6.5, or
satisfactory completion of an approved English language Institute program
Doctorate Degree in Engineering Management
Please contact the academic department for details on the distance doctorate program. Email
emgt@mst.edu
or call 573-341-4572.
Graduate Certificates
Your Pathway to a Graduate Degree
Start earning college credit toward a graduate degree. The GRE is not required to enter a certificate program, and credit earned may be applied toward your master’s degree.*
Engineering Management Graduate Certificate Programs
Engineering Management
Financial Engineering
Foundation of Supply Chain Integration Systems
Human Systems Integration
(currently not accepting students)
Lean Six Sigma
Modeling and Simulation for Decision Systems
Project Management
Project Engineering and Construction Management
Safety Engineering
Systems of Human Capital Management
*restrictions may apply
Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply. Check with the academic department for program specific details and requirements.
Learn more about the certificate to master's program
.
Program structure
This program is 100% online: no campus visits required.
Courses are semester-based. Students typically take one or two classes per semester and finish the program in about three years.
Delivery
100% online
Calendar system
Semester-based
Typical program length
About 3 years
Typical course load
1–2 courses a semester
Courses are offered asynchronously, meaning they do not have regular meetings. They may consist of various media and content — such as online discussions, videos, quizzes and recordings — that students review and complete at the time of their choice.
Non-thesis – 30 credit hours
Missouri S&T’s online master’s in engineering management requires 30 credit hours to complete the non-thesis track.
Students build their program course work in consultation with their advisor. The flowing are the required core courses offered in the program. Courses are 3 credit hours each, unless stated otherwise. The University reserves the right to change or cancel courses as needed. Refer to the
S&T Grad Catalog
to explore course descriptions.
REQUIRED CORE COURSE – 12 credit hours
ENG MGT 5111 Management for Engineers and Scientists
ENG MGT 5320 Project Management
ENG MGT 5412 Operations Management Science
ENG MGT 6211 Advanced Financial Management
Students are encouraged to identify an emphasis area depending on their interests and to choose available courses from the selected area. However, courses can be chosen from more than one emphasis area. Students have the option to take up to two out-of-department elective courses.
Accreditation
Missouri University of Science & Technology is accredited by the
Higher Learning Commission
, one of six regional institutional accreditors in the United States.
Nondegree-seeking enrollment
Prior to acceptance into the program, you may enroll in up to 6 credit hours as a nondegree-seeking (in some cases, post-baccalaureate) student. Enrollment does not guarantee acceptance. Learn more about
nondegree-seeking university student admissions
.
Licensure and disclosures
If you live outside of Missouri and are thinking about enrolling in a program that leads to professional licensure, the University of Missouri System strongly recommends that you check with the relevant licensing board in your state or the state where you plan to work. This will help you obtain the most current information about state licensure requirements before you enroll in any academic program. While Missouri University of Science & Technology strives to provide current licensure information, it's important to note that licensure regulations are subject to change.
For more details, please visit our
licensure and disclosure page
.
State authorization
States require that Missouri University of Science and Technology be authorized to deliver university-level distance/online education to their residents.
The process for authorization varies by state
.
For more details, please visit our
state authorization page
.
Authorized
Students residing in all states are eligible to enroll in this program.
Internships
Internships are encouraged for explore real-life applications of teacher leadership. Find more about available opportunities on
S&T's Career Opportunities
page.
Faculty
Our academic leaders are experts in their respective disciplines and bring extensive experience in higher education, industry, and departmental management. Learn more about the
Engineering Management and Systems Engineering Faculty
at S&T.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby
Associate Director for Online Admissions
573-341-6903  |
stgrad@mst.edu
Engineering Management and Systems Engineering
573-341-4572  |
emgt@mst.edu
Toll Free: 1-800-441-5218
Department Website:
emse.mst.edu