Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/human-systems-integration/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Human Systems Integration
Engineering Management and Systems Engineering
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
THIS PROGRAM IS CURRENTLY NOT ACCEPTING STUDENTS
For questions, please contact the academic department at
emgt@mst.edu
, or
syseng@mst.edu
The human systems integration (HSI) certificate program prepares students to have a significant impact on complex tasks involving humans. It is beneficial for army officers at Ft. Leonard Wood, defense contractors in the systems engineering degree program and others wanting to specialize in HSI. In our increased threat environment, the consequences of HSI failures will become even more critical. We can no longer afford to have a token human factors specialist added to teams addressing complex military issues. A more effective comprehensive approach is to broadly educate military personnel and defense contractors and others in HSI. An increased understanding of human performance will allow for improved performance across the areas of interest which will be gained from this certificate and will result in improved survivability in response to disasters and catastrophes.
Admission requirements
Bachelor's, master's or doctorate degree, with a minimum of 12 months of professional employment experience, or a currently enrolled student in the graduate degree program at Missouri S&T. If you apply through engineering management, you need to meet their admission criteria.
Once admitted to the program, a student is given three years to complete the program so long as a B average is maintained in the courses taken.
Distance application requirements
Students applying for a graduate certificate must submit the following:
Completed Application
Statement of Purpose
Transcripts
Online Application
When you start a new application, select "Graduate Online/Distance" and then select the certificate program.
Don't forget to list your current employer and company location on the application.
Statement of purpose should be 2-3 paragraphs explaining why you are applying for this program.
Statement is to be submitted electronically on the
online application
; you'll copy and paste it into the provided text box.
Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for an admit decision.
Upload your transcripts on the
online application
under your "Institutional Data." If you previously attended S&T, you must upload your transcript. An unofficial transcript can be requested through Joe’SS.
How to Request Unofficial Transcripts
(pdf)
PDF scans are preferred.
The university requires official transcripts from all schools attended before a student may register for a second semester.
In order for a transcript to be counted as official it must be sent directly from the school to S&T, it cannot come from a student.
Official transcripts should be mailed to Global Learning:
Missouri University of Science and Technology
Office of Global Learning
G8 Norwood Hall, 320 West 12th Street
Rolla, MO 65409
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
Related Degrees
This graduate certificate may act as a pathway to the following master’s programs:
Engineering Management
(MS)
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby
Associate Director for Online Admissions
573-341-6903  |
stgrad@mst.edu
Engineering Management and Systems Engineering
573-341-4572  |
emgt@mst.edu
Toll Free: 1-800-441-5218
Department Website:
emse.mst.edu