Source: https://mse.mst.edu/academic-programs/bachelorsdegreeinmetallurgicalengineering/

Earn a Bachelor's Degree in Metallurgical Engineering
As a metallurgical engineering student, you will delve into the fascinating world of metal extraction from minerals, recycled materials, and waste products.
You will also learn to design metallic materials with exceptional mechanical, physical, and chemical properties, and to produce high-quality components using carefully selected metals and alloys. With hands-on experience and a solid understanding of the principles that underpin metallurgical engineering, you will be well-prepared to tackle the challenges of this dynamic and exciting field. Join us and discover the endless possibilities of metallurgical engineering.
Apply now
Want to Know More?
Get info on our program, scholarships, how to visit campus, admissions and more. Take the next step in solving for tomorrow!
Request info
Degree Information
Curriculum
Our bachelor of science degree in metallurgical engineering consists of 128 credit hours. As a freshman, you will be admitted into the foundational engineering program, but you can choose a metallurgical engineering preference.
For more information, check out the university catalog:
View catalog
Biomedical engineering minor
Consider adding a biomedical engineering minor to your degree program! With a minimum of 15 credit hours, including an introduction to biomedical engineering course and a variety of electives to choose from, you can gain the skills and knowledge to contribute to life-saving advancements in the field.
View in catalog
Foundational engineering
As an incoming student, you'll work toward completing common freshman year courses while acquiring information to help you determine a major and career. During the first two or three semesters on campus, you will take a set of courses that are required by all engineering departments. After successfully completing the
common freshmen year academic requirements
, you'll formally apply for admission to the materials science engineering department.
Learn more about the program:
Foundational engineering
Grad Track Pathway program
The Grad Track Pathway offers early provisional admission to the master’s degree program to exceptional undergraduate students and is designed for these students to earn coursework credit towards their master’s degree while completing their bachelor’s degree in the same discipline.
Learn more
Your Career in Metallurgical Engineering
With a metallurgical engineering degree, you
will know about the extraction of metal from minerals, wastes and recycled materials, the design of metallic materials that possess desired mechanical, physical and chemical properties and the production of components from selected metals and alloys.
Metallurgical engineers help make products stronger, more durable, lighter weight and more energy efficient, especially when utilizing recycled materials rather than ores.
Starting Salary
The average salary for S&T students in the last year was $76,250.
Career Fields
Aerospace
Automotive
Electronics
Metal production
Government and military research labs
Common Hiring Companies
Army Research Lab
Caterpillar
General Motors
Gerdau
Nucor Steel
See the Undergraduate Student Experience
Virtual Tour
Information for Future Students
Explore Other Programs
Financial Aid
Campus Living
Costs and Fees
Visit S&T
Admissions
Follow Materials Science and Engineering
Facebook
Linked In
Instagram