Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/mining-project-evaluation/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Mining Project Evaluation
Mining and Explosives Engineering
Apply Now
Request Info
About the Certificate
The Mining Project Evaluation Certificate Program is designed to provide formalized education in mining project evaluation. The program aims to equip students with skills that allow them to evaluate mining projects in order to facilitate investment decisions.
Students admitted to this program must take four required courses (12 credit hours) as outlined below, and obtain a cumulative GPA of 3.0 or better to earn the certificate.
Curriculum
12 credit hours (four courses) and must include at least three courses from the following:
MIN ENG 5522 Ore Reserve Analysis and Geostatistics
: Principles of geostatistics, theory of spatially correlated random variables, variance and co-variances and their application on the evaluation of mineral resources, ore reserve estimation, strategic exploration, and production planning. Real case studies from mining industry will be presented.
Delivery: Main Campus & Online/Spring Semester
MIN ENG 5532 Advanced Mining Economics
: Mining industry & national economics. Social & economics significance of mined commodities. Marketing of mined commodities. Innovation approaches to mine financing, project loans, and leasing. Mining feasibility studies, government influence & policy, mining industry foreign investment, investment strategies, mining taxation, cost predictions.
Delivery: Main Campus & Online/Fall Semester
MIN ENG 5913 Advanced Computer Aided Mine Design
: Project-based mine planning and design course. Engineering design process applied to computer-aided mine planning and design. Mine layouts, production planning, and materials scheduling optimization.
Delivery: Main Campus & Online/Fall Semester
MIN ENG 6522 Mining Property Feasibility Studies and Evaluation Procedure
: A systematic phased approach is presented, designed to increase the level of confidence and accuracy of estimates, moving from exploration through to a "bankable" study. Liability, ethics, resource/reserves, political/social/investment risk, economic parameters, and due diligence are discussed.
Delivery: Main Campus & Online/Spring semester
Select one course from the following:
MIN ENG 5212 Aggregates and Quarrying
: Advanced coverage of topics on the stone and aggregate industry, including surface and underground operations, plant equipment, economics, marketing, transportation, and environmental topics. The course will include at least one field trip and a design project.
Delivery: Main Campus & Online/Spring Semester
MIN ENG 6912 Simulation of Mining Systems
: Overview of stochastic simulation. Model formulation using general purpose process simulation software. Model verification and validation. Simulation experimentation.
Delivery: Main Campus & Online/Fall Semester
MIN ENG 6932 Advanced Mining Systems
: Principles of design for the development and production of hard rock mineral deposits that require integrated surface and underground mining methods. Cost considerations leading to optimization. Terminal feasibility report required.
Delivery: Main Campus & Online/Fall Semester
MIN ENG 6936 Surface Mine Design
: This course will focus on the determinants of surface mine design, geomechanical and geometrical mine design for open pit and strip mining; mine layouts optimization; mine environmental systems; and research directions in surface mine design and optimization.
Delivery: Main Campus & Online/Spring Semester
Admission requirements
The Mining Project Evaluation Certificate Program is open to all persons holding a B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. degree in Engineering, Science, and/or Mathematics, or are currently accepted into a graduate degree program at Missouri S&T. Once admitted to the program, the student must take the four designated courses (provided in the curriculum section). In order to receive a Graduate Certificate, the student must have an average cumulative grade point of 3.0 or better in the certificate courses. Once admitted to the program, a student will be given three years to complete the program.
Students admitted to the Mining Project Evaluation Certificate Program will have non-degree graduate status; however, they will earn graduate credit for the course they complete. If the student completes the four-course sequence with a grade of B or better in each of the courses taken, they, upon application, will be admitted to the M.S. degree program in mining engineering. The certificate credits taken by the students admitted to the M.S. degree program will count towards their master's degrees. Students who do not have all of the prerequisite courses necessary to begin the courses in the Mining Project Evaluation Certificate Program will be allowed to take ''bridge" courses at either the graduate or undergraduate level to prepare for the formal certificate courses.
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
Related Degrees
This graduate certificate may act as a pathway to the following master’s programs:
Mining Engineering
(MS)
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby, Associate Director for Online Admissions
Phone: 573-341-6903
Email:
stgrad@mst.edu
Mining and Explosives Engineering
Kathleen German
Administrative Assistant
Phone: 573-341-4753
Email:
kg2kv@mst.edu