Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/business-intelligence/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Business Intelligence
Business and Information Technology
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
Interest in business intelligence has been a recent strong theme among employers of our graduate students and among our distance students. Medium and large-sized businesses are especially interested. In order to make appropriate decisions, upper-level administration of an organization needs to draw the data together from different systems in order to get a crisper picture of the status and performance of an organization and present it in helpful ways. Examples include the development of organizational scorecards, dashboards and other tools that provide a picture of how an organization is performing. People capable of creating and maintaining such information are needed, but the in-depth education necessary for these people is available in only a few places.
The graduate certificate in business intelligence focuses on the technologies that allow an organization to make effective business decisions based on operational data pulled together from many different sources inside an organization. The target audience consists of any individual who would manage any type of IT professionals, database administrators, business analysts, and any person who would need to understand the technologies behind the capabilities of those technologies.
Admission requirements
The business intelligence certificate program is open to all individuals who hold a bachelor's, master's or doctorate degree and who have a minimum of one year of post-bachelor's professional employment experience.
The certificate program consists of four courses. In order to receive a graduate certificate, you must earn a cumulative GPA ≥ 3.0 in the four certificate courses taken.
After successful completion of the graduate certificate program, you may be admitted to the MBA program or the master of science in information science & technology program. The normal application process will be followed, but the minimum undergraduate GPA and GRE score requirements will be waived. Normal course prerequisites still apply.
Students admitted to the certificate program will have non-degree graduate status, but will earn graduate credit for the courses they complete.
Once admitted to the certificate program, you will have three years to complete the certificate, as long as you maintain a B average in the courses taken.
Distance application requirements
Students applying for a graduate certificate must submit the following:
Completed Application
Statement of Purpose
Transcripts
Online Application
When you start a new application, select "Graduate Online/Distance" and then select the certificate program.
Don't forget to list your current employer and company location on the application.
Statement of purpose should be 2-3 paragraphs explaining why you are applying for this program.
Statement is to be submitted electronically on the
online application
; you'll copy and paste it into the provided text box.
Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for an admit decision.
Upload your transcripts on the
online application
under your "Institutional Data." If you previously attended S&T, you must upload your transcript. An unofficial transcript can be requested through Joe’SS.
How to Request Unofficial Transcripts
(pdf)
PDF scans are preferred.
The university requires official transcripts from all schools attended before a student may register for a second semester.
In order for a transcript to be counted as official it must be sent directly from the school to S&T, it cannot come from a student.
Official transcripts should be mailed to Global Learning:
Missouri University of Science and Technology
Office of Global Learning
G8 Norwood Hall, 320 West 12th Street
Rolla, MO 65409
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
Related Degrees
This graduate certificate may act as a pathway to the following master’s programs:
Business Administration
(MBA)
Information Science and Technology
(MS)
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby, Associate Director for Online Admissions
Phone: 573-341-6903
Email:
stgrad@mst.edu
Business and Information
Science and Technology
Business and Information Science and Technology
101 Fulton Hall
301 W. 14th St.
Rolla, MO 65409
Phone: 573-341-4776
Email:
bit@mst.edu
Web:
bit.mst.edu