Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-degrees/technical-communication/

Real Degrees for Working Professionals
Master of Science in Technical Communication
Become a highly trained technical communicator with a master's degree in Technical Communication.  This graduate program provides a comprehensive curriculum that enhances written, oral and visual communication skills.
As a technical communicator, you have the ability to bridge the gap between technical experts and the users of technology. There is a wide variety of jobs available in this field,  including content developers, technical editors and writers, usability specialists and web designers.
Thesis and non-thesis options available. The thesis degree requires a minimum of 33 credit hours of coursework (24 credit hours of coursework from the list of courses below, in addition to 3 hours of TCH COM 6600 and 6 hours of TCH COM 5099).  The
non-thesis degree  requires 30 credit hours of coursework.
Required Course:
TCH COM 6600: Foundations of Technical Communication.
The remaining courses should come from the following list and should be determined in consultation with the student’s academic advisors. Students must take 3 TCH COM courses at the 6000 level.
TCH COM 5001 Special Topics (Experimental course offering, TBD)
TCH COM 5510 Technical Editing
TCH COM 5520 Help Authoring
TCH COM 5530 Usability Studies
TCH COM 5540 Advanced Layout and Design
TCH COM 5550 Advance Proposal Writing
TCH COM 5560 Web-Based Communication
TCH COM 5610 History of Technical Communication
TCH COM 5620 Research Methods in Technical Communication
TCH COM 6001 Special Topics (Experimental course offering, TBD)
TCH COM 6070 Teaching of Technical Communication
TCH COM 6410 Theoretical Approaches to Technical Communication
TCH COM 6420 Project Management in Technical Communication
TCH COM 6440 Advanced Theories of Visual Technical Communication
TCH COM 6450 Advanced International Technical Communication
Admission Requirements
Bachelor’s degree in any field such as science, engineering, humanities, communication, journalism, or information technology.
Undergraduate GPA
≥ 3.0
International requirement: TOEFL ≥ 79,  or IELTS
≥ 6.5,
or satisfactory completion of an approved English language Institute program.
Graduate Certificates
Your Pathway to a Graduate Degree
Start earning college credit toward a graduate degree. The GRE is not required to enter a certificate program, and credit earned may be applied toward your master’s degree.*
Graduate Certificate Program
Technical Communication
*restrictions may apply
Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply. Check with the academic department for program specific details and requirements.
Learn more about the certificate to master's program
.
Program structure
This program is 100% online: no campus visits required.
Courses are semester-based. Students typically take one or two classes per semester and finish the program in about three years.
Delivery
100% online
Calendar system
Semester-based
Typical program length
About 3 years
Typical course load
1–2 courses a semester
Courses are offered asynchronously, meaning they do not have regular meetings. They may consist of various media and content — such as online discussions, videos, quizzes and recordings — that students review and complete at the time of their choice.
Accreditation
Missouri University of Science & Technology is accredited by the
Higher Learning Commission
, one of six regional institutional accreditors in the United States.
Nondegree-seeking enrollment
Prior to acceptance into the program, you may enroll in up to 6 credit hours as a nondegree-seeking (in some cases, post-baccalaureate) student. Enrollment does not guarantee acceptance. Learn more about
nondegree-seeking university student admissions
.
Licensure and disclosures
If you live outside of Missouri and are thinking about enrolling in a program that leads to professional licensure, the University of Missouri System strongly recommends that you check with the relevant licensing board in your state or the state where you plan to work. This will help you obtain the most current information about state licensure requirements before you enroll in any academic program. While Missouri University of Science & Technology strives to provide current licensure information, it's important to note that licensure regulations are subject to change.
For more details, please visit our
licensure and disclosure page
.
State authorization
States require that Missouri University of Science and Technology be authorized to deliver university-level distance/online education to their residents.
The process for authorization varies by state
.
For more details, please visit our
state authorization page
.
Authorized
Students residing in all states are eligible to enroll in this program.
Internships
Internships are encouraged for explore real-life applications of teacher leadership. Find more about available opportunities on
S&T's Career Opportunities
page.
Faculty
Our academic leaders are experts in their respective disciplines and bring extensive experience in higher education, industry, and departmental management. Learn more about the
English and Technical Communication Faculty
at S&T.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby
Associate Director for Online Admissions
573-341-6903  |
stgrad@mst.edu
English and Technical Communication
Ed Malone, PhD
Professor and Assistant Department Chair for Graduate Studies
573-341-4311  |
malonee@mst.edu
Department Website:
english.mst.edu