Source: https://chbe.mst.edu/academicprograms/phd-bioeng/

Earn a PhD in Bioengineering
Our Ph.D. program is more than just an advanced degree; it's an immersive experience designed to cultivate trailblazers in the rapidly evolving field of Bioengineering.
Engage in groundbreaking research projects guided by leading experts in Bioengineering, spanning areas such as biomaterials, tissue engineering, medical imaging, and more.
Apply now
Want to Know More?
Get info on our program, scholarships, how to visit campus, admissions and more. Take the next step in solving for tomorrow!
Request info
Degree Information
Overview
The instruction in our program is a blend of theoretical knowledge and practical application.
As a doctoral candidate, you'll join a community of scholars, researchers, and innovators committed to pushing the frontiers of knowledge and addressing critical challenges in healthcare, biotechnology, and beyond.
Catalog information coming soon...
Program requirements
Students who enter the program directly with a BS degree will need to complete a minimum of 72 credit hours beyond their BS degree, which includes a minimum of 30 credit hours of 4000-, 5000-, and 6000-level lecture courses. A student entering with an MS degree can receive up to 30 credit hours toward their Ph.D., so they would need to complete only the remaining 42 credit hours, including a minimum of 12 credit hours of 4000-, 5000-, and 6000-level lecture courses.
In addition, students are required to pass a Ph.D. qualifying exam before their 5th semester and a comprehensive Ph.D. exam after completing at least 50% of the required 26 coursework for their Ph.D. degree. When they are ready and have obtained sufficient results from their research, students must complete a written dissertation and successfully defend the dissertation in their final examination (defense).
View more*
*
Curriculum is subject to final approval
Graduate funding
For Ph.D. students, we very seldom admit one without funding, meaning that we typically admit those who have been selected for Graduate Research Assistantships by professors having funded projects or Graduate Teaching Assistantships by the department.
View faculty
Scholarships available
FAQ document
Many potential graduate students have questions about how to apply to the graduate program and what makes them eligible. This document is aimed to answer some of those questions you may have. Email us at
chemeng@mst.edu
if you have other questions that are not covered. This document will soon be updated to include the bioengineering program.
View FAQ document
Graduate student handbook
The student handbook contains details about programs, requirements, processes and courses.
It also has specific information for the chemical engineering program, but updates will be made soon to include the bioengineering program.
View handbook
Graduate Certificates
Supercharge your career with a graduate certificate!
They are open to all persons holding a B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. degree in chemical engineering or a closely allied discipline, including those who are currently accepted into a graduate degree program at Missouri S&T. So what are you waiting for? Skill up and step up your career—seamlessly and efficiently.
Carbon Management Engineering Graduate Certificate
The carbon management engineering certificate program introduces the students to carbon management strategies related to the engineering principles of carbon capture, transformation, and storage.
Learn more
Eligibility
It is open to all persons holding a B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. degree in chemical engineering, petroleum engineering, mechanical engineering, or a closely allied discipline, including those who are currently accepted into a graduate degree program at Missouri S&T.
In order to be admitted, a student must have an overall GPA of 3.0, or 2.75 with a minimum of one year of work experience. Once admitted to the program, the student must take the four designated courses.
Requirements to Earn
It requires the students to complete three carbon management courses offered by Chemical and Biochemical Engineering (ChBE), Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering (MAE), and Geosciences and Geological and Petroleum Engineering (GGPE), respectively, plus an additional course to be selected from a variety of existing courses from these same departments.
To receive the certificate, the student must have an average cumulative grade point of 3.0 or better in the certificate courses.
Admission to Graduate Program
Once admitted to the certificate program, a student will be given three years to complete the program.
Chemical Process Engineering Graduate Certificate
The graduate certificate in chemical process engineering is aimed at helping working professionals expand skills relevant to their career while developing a deeper understanding of chemical engineering fundamentals.
Learn more
Eligibility
It is open to all individuals holding a BS degree in chemical engineering or a closely allied discipline with an overall GPA of 3.0 or 2.75 plus a minimum of one year of working experience.
Requirements to Earn
To earn the graduate certificate a student must take the four designated courses as advised by the graduate coordinator and complete them with an average GPA of 3.0 or better.
Admission to Graduate Program
If all the four certificate courses receive a grade of B or better, the student will, upon application, be admitted to the MS program in chemical engineering and the four courses will count toward an MS degree.
Your Career in Bioengineering
Estimated Starting Salary
$75,000 - $105,000
Career Pathways
Academia/Research Institutions
Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical Industry
Entrepreneurship and Startups
Governments and National Labs
Healthcare and Hospitals
Medical Device Industry
Research in Bioengineering
Linda and Bipin Doshi Department of Chemical and Biochemical Engineering at Missouri S&T has developed a research infrastructure in the form of computational and experimental facilities that allow both students and faculty to pursue research and gain expertise in a specialized area.
Specialized Areas of Research
Biochemical and Biomedical Engineering
Carbon Management
Energy and Environment
Materials and Nanotechnology
Particle Technology and Characterization
Reaction Engineering
Transport Phenomena
Learn more
Research Funding
Research in the department is funded through external grants and contracts from several federal agencies, including the
National Science Foundation
, the
National Institutes of Health
, the
Department of Energy
, the
Environmental Protection Agency
, various agencies within the
Department of Defense
, state sources, and a number of companies.
Information for Future Students
Explore Other Programs
Financial Aid
Campus Living
Costs and Fees
Visit S&T
Admissions
Follow Linda and Bipin Doshi Department of Chemical and Biochemical Engineering
Facebook
Linked In
Instagram