Source: https://mse.mst.edu/academic-programs/bachelorsdegreeinceramicengineering/

Earn a Bachelor's Degree in Ceramic Engineering
Ceramic engineers develop ceramic materials and products for a variety of industries, such as electronics, aerospace, healthcare, and construction.
Consider studying ceramic engineering, where you can explore the unique characteristics of ceramics and their countless practical applications.
Apply now
Want to Know More?
Get info on our program, scholarships, how to visit campus, admissions and more. Take the next step in solving for tomorrow!
Request info
Degree Information
Curriculum
Our bachelor of science degree in ceramic engineering consists of 128 credit hours. As a freshman, you will be admitted into the foundational engineering program, but you can choose a ceramic engineering preference.
For more information, check out the university catalog:
View catalog
Biomedical engineering minor
Consider adding a biomedical engineering minor to your degree program! With a minimum of 15 credit hours, including an introduction to biomedical engineering course and a variety of electives to choose from, you can gain the skills and knowledge to contribute to life-saving advancements in the field.
View in catalog
Foundational engineering
As an incoming student, you'll work toward completing common freshman year courses while acquiring information to help you determine a major and career. During the first two or three semesters on campus, you will take a set of courses that are required by all engineering departments. After successfully completing the
common freshmen year academic requirements
, you'll formally apply for admission to the materials science engineering department.
Learn more about the program:
Foundational engineering
Grad Track Pathway program
The Grad Track Pathway offers early provisional admission to the master’s degree program to exceptional undergraduate students and is designed for these students to earn coursework credit towards their master’s degree while completing their bachelor’s degree in the same discipline.
Learn more
What Alumni Say About S&T
Through the Freshmen Engineering course, I was introduced to the world of Material Science and Engineering, this led me to pursuing my bachelors in Ceramic Engineering. The Ceramic Engineering department was a perfect blend of immersive learning, and practical industry experience. The departments faculty had a wide breadth of subject matter expertise across all areas of ceramic manufacturing and research. The knowledge I gained through hands-on labs, practice presentations, and various professional development opportunities; I graduated ready to operate in industry as a full-time associate.
— Steph Soendker, Kohler
I first discovered I wanted to be a ceramic engineer after attending a Miner Day on S&T’s campus, when Dr. Wayne Huebner showed me several demonstrations of ceramic engineering applications in aerospace, electronics and glass. I was excited by the diverse career paths a ceramic engineer could take, as well as the unique technologies involved. The amount of expertise and one-on-one support provided by the faculty within the MSE department was paramount to my success within the program, and led me to my career passion of working on Ceramic Matrix Composites at GE Aerospace.
— Andrew Jacobs, GE Aerospace
Your Career in Ceramic Engineering
As a ceramic engineer, your work can involve developing various products such as exterior tiles for the Space Station, cathodes for fuel cells, conductive ceramics for microprocessors and solar panels, bioactive glasses for curing liver cancer, and flexible prosthetics for Paralympic athletes. You may even work on lenses for night-vision goggles used by pilots.
Starting Salary
The average starting salary of ceramic engineering undergraduates is $74,400.
Career Fields
Aerospace
Biomaterials
Electronic Ceramics
Glass
Solar Energy & Fuel Cells
Common Hiring Companies
GE Aerospace
Honeywell
Kohler
Owens-Illinois
Watlow
See the Undergraduate Student Experience
Virtual Tour
Information for Future Students
Explore Other Programs
Financial Aid
Campus Living
Costs and Fees
Visit S&T
Admissions
Follow Materials Science and Engineering
Facebook
Linked In
Instagram