Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-degrees/information-science-technology/

Real Degrees for Working Professionals
Master of Science in Information Science and Technology
Drive the evolution of our economy and society – design, build, and maintain the next systems of information technologies, becoming a highly trained IST professional. This AACSB accredited graduate program is structured to educate you in the design, development, and successful application of information systems and other technologies in organizations and businesses.
Admission Requirements
Bachelor’s degree, or successful completion of 12 graduate hours in Information Science and Technology coursework
Undergraduate GPA ≥ 3.0
All applicants are required to complete either the GRE or the GMAT. Admission requirements based upon the GRE are a minimum combined verbal & quantitative score of 300 and analytical writing score of 3.0. Admissions requirements based upon the GMAT are a minimum score of 500.
International requirement: TOEFL ≥ 79, or IELS
≥ 6.5,
or satisfactory completion of an approved English language Institute program.
Graduate Certificates
Your Pathway to a Graduate Degree
Start earning college credit toward a graduate degree. The GRE is not required to enter a certificate program, and credit earned may be applied toward your master’s degree.*
Graduate Certificate Programs
Business Analytics and Data Science
Business Intelligence
Business Project Management
Digital Supply Chain Management
Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)
Entrepreneurship and Technological Innovation
Finance
Financial Technology
Management and Leadership
*restrictions may apply
Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply. Check with the academic department for program specific details and requirements.
Learn more about the certificate to master's program
.
Program structure
This program is 100% online: no campus visits required.
Courses are semester-based. Students typically take one or two classes per semester and finish the program in one year.
Delivery
100% online
Calendar system
Semester-based
Typical program length
1–2 years
Typical course load
1–2 courses a semester
Courses are offered asynchronously, meaning they do not have regular meetings. They may consist of various media and content — such as online discussions, videos, quizzes and recordings — that students review and complete at the time of their choice.
Required Course Work – 30 credit hours
The online master of information science and technology requires 30 credit hours of graduate coursework (5000-level and above). Consult your adviser to plan out your degree in line with your education and career goals
.
The following are the required courses offered in the program. Courses are 3 credit hours each unless stated otherwise. The University reserves the right to change or cancel courses as needed. Refer to the
S&T Grad Catalog
to explore course descriptions.
REQUIRED CORE COURSE – 12 credit hours
IS&T 5885 Human-Computer Interaction
IS&T 6251 Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Economic Development
IS&T 6261 Advanced Information Systems Project Management
IS&T 6336 Foundations of Internet Computing
ELECTIVE COURSES – 18 credit hours
Electives are to be selected in consultation with your advisor from the following subject areas:
business
,
enterprise resource planning
,
finance
,
information science and technology
or
marketing
. Click on a subject to see a complete list of courses under that subject area. Up to six credit hours may instead be taken outside of the department of business and information technology.
Accreditation
Missouri University of Science & Technology is accredited by the
Higher Learning Commission
, one of six regional institutional accreditors in the United States.
Nondegree-seeking enrollment
Prior to acceptance into the program, you may enroll in up to 6 credit hours as a nondegree-seeking (in some cases, post-baccalaureate) student. Enrollment does not guarantee acceptance. Learn more about
nondegree-seeking university student admissions
.
Licensure and disclosures
If you live outside of Missouri and are thinking about enrolling in a program that leads to professional licensure, the University of Missouri System strongly recommends that you check with the relevant licensing board in your state or the state where you plan to work. This will help you obtain the most current information about state licensure requirements before you enroll in any academic program. While Missouri University of Science & Technology strives to provide current licensure information, it's important to note that licensure regulations are subject to change.
For more details, please visit our
licensure and disclosure page
.
State authorization
States require that Missouri University of Science and Technology be authorized to deliver university-level distance/online education to their residents.
The process for authorization varies by state
.
For more details, please visit our
state authorization page
.
Authorized
Students residing in all states are eligible to enroll in this program.
Internships
Internships are encouraged for explore real-life applications of teacher leadership. Find more about available opportunities on
S&T's Career Opportunities
page.
Faculty
Our academic leaders are experts in their respective disciplines and bring extensive experience in higher education, industry, and departmental management. Learn more about the
Business and Information Science and Technology Faculty
at S&T.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby
Associate Director for Online Admissions
573-341-6903  |
stgrad@mst.edu
Business and Information Science and Technology
573-341-4776  |
bit@mst.edu
Department Website:
bit.mst.edu