Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-degrees/aerospace-engineering/

Real Degrees for Working Professionals
Master of Science in Aerospace Engineering
Enhance your knowledge of aerodynamics and propulsions, control, dynamics, stability, materials and structures with a graduate degree in aerospace engineering. Coursework is interdisciplinary and provides a comprehensive approach to meet your individual educational goals.
Thesis and non-thesis options available. The thesis degree requires a minimum of 30 credit hours of coursework (at least 21 credit hours of coursework and at least 6 credit hours of research). The non-thesis degree requires a minimum of 30 credit hours of coursework, up to 6 hours of which can be from out-of-department courses.
Admission Requirements
Bachelor’s degree in aerospace or mechanical engineering, or a related engineering or science field
Undergraduate GPA ≥ 3.0
GRE V+Q ≥ 302; GRE Q ≥ 155, and GRE WR ≥ 3.5
International requirement: TOEFL ≥ 80 or IELTS
≥ 6.5
Doctorate Degree in Aerospace Engineering
Please contact the academic department for details on the distance doctorate program. Email
mae@mst.edu
or call 573-341-4661.
Graduate Certificates
Your Pathway to a Graduate Degree
Start earning college credit toward a graduate degree. The GRE is not required to enter a certificate program, and credit earned may be applied toward your master’s degree.*
Graduate Certificate Programs
Composite Materials and Structures
Control Systems
Energy Conversion and Transport
Engineering Mechanics
*restrictions may apply
Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply. Check with the academic department for program specific details and requirements.
Learn more about the certificate to master's program
.
Program structure
This program is 100% online: no campus visits required.
Courses are semester-based. Students typically take one or two classes per semester and finish the program in about three years.
Delivery
100% online
Calendar system
Semester-based
Typical program length
About 3 years
Typical course load
1–2 courses a semester
Courses are offered asynchronously, meaning they do not have regular meetings. They may consist of various media and content — such as online discussions, videos, quizzes and recordings — that students review and complete at the time of their choice.
Non-thesis – 30 credit hours
Missouri S&T’s online master’s in mechanical engineering requires 30 credit hours to complete the non-thesis track.
Students build their program course work in consultation with their advisor. Courses are 3 credit hours each, unless stated otherwise. The University reserves the right to change or cancel courses as needed. Refer to the
S&T Grad Catalog
to explore course descriptions.
24 credit hours must be from the MAE department
9 credit hours of 6,000–level courses which at least 6 credit hours must be
from the MAE department
N
o course below the 5000-level may be applied to the degree requirements
Accreditation
Missouri University of Science & Technology is accredited by the
Higher Learning Commission
, one of six regional institutional accreditors in the United States.
Nondegree-seeking enrollment
Prior to acceptance into the program, you may enroll in up to 6 credit hours as a nondegree-seeking (in some cases, post-baccalaureate) student. Enrollment does not guarantee acceptance. Learn more about
nondegree-seeking university student admissions
.
Licensure and disclosures
If you live outside of Missouri and are thinking about enrolling in a program that leads to professional licensure, the University of Missouri System strongly recommends that you check with the relevant licensing board in your state or the state where you plan to work. This will help you obtain the most current information about state licensure requirements before you enroll in any academic program. While Missouri University of Science & Technology strives to provide current licensure information, it's important to note that licensure regulations are subject to change.
For more details, please visit our
licensure and disclosure page
.
State authorization
States require that Missouri University of Science and Technology be authorized to deliver university-level distance/online education to their residents.
The process for authorization varies by state
.
For more details, please visit our
state authorization page
.
Authorized
Students residing in all states are eligible to enroll in this program.
Internships
Internships are encouraged for explore real-life applications of teacher leadership. Find more about available opportunities on
S&T's Career Opportunities
page.
Faculty
Our academic leaders are experts in their respective disciplines and bring extensive experience in higher education, industry, and departmental management. Learn more about the
Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Faculty
at S&T.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby
Associate Director for Online Admissions
573-341-6903  |
stgrad@mst.edu
Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Xiaodong Yang, PhD
Associate Professor and Chair of Graduate Affairs
573-341-6273  |
yangxia@mst.edu
Department Website:
mae.mst.edu