Source: https://ese.mst.edu/academic-programs/petroleum-engineering/

Petroleum engineering students perform meaningful research towards the advancement of oil and gas recovery while gaining technical knowledge and weighing ethical considerations.
Undergraduate Degree
Undergraduate Degree
Graduate Degrees
Graduate Degrees
$4,000 Petroleum Engineering Scholarship
$4,000 Petroleum Engineering Scholarship
A Fall 2025 scholarship available for first-time students and undergraduate initial transfer students. 
Click to email Donna Arthur for more information.
Virtual Presentations
Virtual Presentations
Want to find out more about Petroleum Engineering at Missouri S&T? Register for one of our virtual presentations to learn more and ask questions.
Solving For Petroleum's Industry
Your Career in Petroleum Engineering
Petroleum engineers extract oil, gas and other resources from the Earth, and they do it all over the world. They plan and supervise the drilling of wells, evaluate oil and gas production, and predict future production from the Gulf of Mexico to the coasts of Singapore. Aside from everyday gasoline, petroleum is also used in  different fuels, and its byproducts are found in everything from car tires to toys.
Career as a petroleum engineer
S&T petroleum engineering grads work all over the world in the areas of drilling, production, and reservoir engineering of oil and gas fields.
For more information about jobs
Visit
Career Opportunities and Employer Relations
to learn more about our biannual Career Fair.
Research
The unique structure of our department benefits our research efforts and provides students with unique opportunities for collaboration and multi-disciplinary understanding.
Research in petroleum engineering focuses on exploring, drilling, and extracting hydrocarbon resources, and explores topics such as mechanical earth modeling, CO
2
sequestration, and enhanced oil recovery.
Laboratory-focused research is offered in all of these specialty areas. For more information, check out the following research topics:
Geophysics and Earth Deformation Processes
Petroleum and Mining Systems and Application
Learn more about each research area
Follow Earth Sciences and Engineering
Facebook
Twitter
Linked In
Youtube
Instagram