Source: https://nuclear.mst.edu/academic-programs/masters-degree-in-nuclear-engineering/

Earn a Master's Degree in Nuclear Engineering
Develop as a professional in your field by building your subject matter knowledge and furthering your communication skills.
Have you considered getting your master’s degree after graduation, or maybe you are already in the nuclear engineering field and want to further your education to open doors for promotion or leadership roles? S&T’s nuclear engineering graduate program is here to help you achieve your goals! Engage in productive analysis and criticism of your own and others’ research during your graduate studies.
Apply now
Want to Know More?
Get info on our program, scholarships, how to visit campus, admissions and more. Take the next step in solving for tomorrow!
Request info
Degree Information
Curriculum
The master’s degree program is designed to provide training and expertise in the design of nuclear energy systems and use of nuclear technology for medical as well as industrial applications. Both thesis and without thesis options are available for M.S. degree program with a minimum of 30 credit hours required for successful completion.
Learn more
Graduate handbook
The department of Nuclear and Radiation Science developed this handbook to assist you with the nuclear and radiation science program.
View Handbook
Your Career in Nuclear Engineering
As a nuclear engineer, you will develop and promote the use of energy released from nuclear fission, nuclear fusion, and radioactive material.
Nuclear power plants operating in the United States produce about 20% of our nation's electricity. Nuclear power technology produces about 60% of our nation’s carbon-free electricity, reduces the emission of greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide significantly, and contributes to a cleaner environment. The same technology supports propulsion of US military submarines and aircraft carriers. Radioactive materials are also used in medicine for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes.
Career Fields
Nuclear reactor design
Plant licensing
Plant operation
Fuel management and development
Radioactive waste disposal
Health physics
Medical isotope production
Medical imaging and treatments
Instrumentation and control
Fusion research
Space nuclear power
Nuclear Engineers Work With:
Consulting firms
Non-nuclear component companies
Medical device manufacturers
Industrial measurement manufacturers
Architect-engineering firms
Industrial research centers
National laboratories
Government agencies
Research in Nuclear Engineering and Radiation Science
This is an exciting time to pursue research opportunities in nuclear engineering. You will work with faculty in research areas such as neutronics, thermal-hydraulics, nuclear materials, and medical application of nuclear sciences.
Explore Research Fields
Nuclear materials
Nuclear reactor thermal hydraulics
Nano radioisotopes research
Medical imaging
Computational reactor physics
See the Graduate Student Experience
Virtual Tour
Information for Future Students
Academic Programs
Explore Other Programs
Financial Aid
Campus Living
Costs and Fees
Visit S&T
Admissions
Follow Nuclear Engineering and Radiation Science
Facebook
Twitter
TikTok
Linked In
Youtube
Instagram