Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/geoanalytics-and-geointelligence/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Geoanalytics and Geointelligence
Geological Engineering
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
The graduate certificate in Geoanalytics and Geointelligence is designed to provide formalized education in the areas of geoanalytics, geospatial data analysis, and geointelligence. It is structured for those
who are interested in careers that rely heavily on geoanalytics and/or geointelligence with a certificate to increase their marketablity in this job sector.
The certificate requires one course (GEO ENG 5144/GEOLOGY 4310 Remote Sensing Technology) which provides a background in remote sensing and allows students to pick three additional courses among a variety of geoanalytic, intelligence, and numerical analysis offerings.
Required Course:
GEO ENG 5144/GEOLOGY 4310 Remote Sensing Technology
(LEC 2.0 and LAB 1.0)
Principles of digital image processing including image enhancement and multispectral classification. Emphasis upon design and implementation of remote sensing systems and analysis of remotely sensed data for geotechnical and environmental investigations. Prerequisite: Geology 1110. (Co-listed)
Admission requirements
The Geoanalytics and Geointelligence Certificate Program is open to all persons holding a B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. degree in Geology, Geophysics, Geological Engineering, Geotechnics, Civil Engineering, or similar programs or who are currently accepted into a graduate degree program in one of these fields at Missouri S&T. Once admitted to the program, the student must take the four designated courses (provided in the curriculum section). In order to receive a Graduate Certificate, the student must have an average cumulative grade point of 3.0 or better in the certificate courses.  Once admitted to the program, a student will be given three years to complete the program.
Students admitted to the Geoanalytics and Geointelligence Certificate Program will have non-degree graduate status, however, they will earn graduate credit for the courses they complete. If the student completes the four-course sequence with a grade of B or better in each of the courses taken, they, upon application, will be admitted to their choice of non-thesis M.S. degree programs in either Geological Engineering or Geology and Geophysics. The certificate credits taken by the students admitted to the M.S. degree program will count towards their master's degree. Students who do not have all of the prerequisite courses necessary to begin the courses in the Geoanalytics and Geointelligence Certificate Program will be allowed to take ''bridge" courses at either the graduate or undergraduate level to prepare for the formal certificate courses.
Distance application requirements
Students applying for a graduate certificate must submit the following:
Completed Application
Statement of Purpose
Transcripts
Online Application
When you start a new application, select "Graduate Online/Distance" and then select the certificate program.
Don't forget to list your current employer and company location on the application.
Statement of purpose should be 2-3 paragraphs explaining why you are applying for this program.
Statement is to be submitted electronically on the
online application
; you'll copy and paste it into the provided text box.
Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for an admit decision.
Upload your transcripts on the
online application
under your "Institutional Data." If you previously attended S&T, you must upload your transcript. An unofficial transcript can be requested through Joe’SS.
How to Request Unofficial Transcripts
(pdf)
PDF scans are preferred.
The university requires official transcripts from all schools attended before a student may register for a second semester.
In order for a transcript to be counted as official it must be sent directly from the school to S&T, it cannot come from a student.
Official transcripts should be mailed to Global Learning:
Missouri University of Science and Technology
Office of Global Learning
G8 Norwood Hall, 320 West 12th Street
Rolla, MO 65409
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
Related Degrees
This graduate certificate may act as a pathway to the following master’s programs:
Geological Engineering
(MS)
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Questions?
Contact Us.
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby, Associate Director for Online Admissions
Phone: 573-341-6903
Email:
stgrad@mst.edu
Geological Engineering
Dr. Jeffrey D. Cawlfield
Professor, Geosciences & Geological and Petroleum Engineering
123 & 127 McNutt Hall
Rolla, MO 65409
Email:
jdc@mst.edu
Dept. Email:
rocks@mst.edu
Phone:  573-341-6774