Source: https://chbe.mst.edu/academicprograms/bachelorsdegreeinchemicalengineering/

Earn a Bachelor's Degree in Chemical Engineering
Studying chemical or biochemical engineering at Missouri S&T will be your stepping stone to a rewarding career solving global challenges in energy, the environment, food and medicine.
Through a combination of theoretical and practical courses with hands-on laboratory experiences, you will develop the necessary technical skills. You will establish friendships that will stay with you throughout your career. By selecting the appropriate electives and experiential learning activities, you can fine-tune your degree and reach your goals.
Apply now
Want to Know More?
Get info on our program, scholarships, how to visit campus, admissions and more. Take the next step in solving for tomorrow!
Request info
Degree Information
Curriculum
Our bachelor of science degree in chemical engineering consists of 128 credit hours. As a freshman, you will be admitted into the foundational engineering program but can choose a chemical engineering preference.
For more information, check out the university catalog, checklist and flowchart:
View catalog
View checklist and flowchart
Biochemical engineering emphasis
Consider selecting the biochemical engineering emphasis! With a total of 132 credit hours, biochemical engineers take chemistry and microbiology out of the laboratory and into the world around us. They are creative problem solvers who apply scientific knowledge and technical expertise to make useful materials at a reasonable cost and in the safest manner possible.
Learn more
View checklist and flowchart
Foundational engineering
As an incoming student, you'll work toward completing common freshman year courses while acquiring information to help you determine a major and career. During the first two or three semesters on campus, you will take a set of courses that are required by all engineering departments. After successfully completing the
common freshmen year academic requirements
, you'll formally apply for admission to Linda and Bipin Doshi Department of Chemical and Biochemical Engineering.
Learn more about the program:
Foundational engineering
Grad Track Pathway program
The Grad Track Pathway offers early provisional admission to the master’s degree program to exceptional undergraduate students and is designed for these students to earn coursework credit towards their master’s degree while completing their bachelor’s degree in the same discipline.
Learn more
Research opportunities for undergraduates
The Department offers research opportunities for undergraduate students, welcoming them to engage in hands-on learning and discovery. Professors are highly supportive and encourage students to participate in research in various forms, from assisting with ongoing projects to developing independent ideas. Undergraduate students are invited to reach out directly to individual professors to explore available opportunities and find a research experience that aligns with their interests and career goals. This engagement in research not only enhances learning but also fosters valuable skills for future academic and professional pursuits.
Student handbook
The student handbook contains details about the department, program, requirements, and issues.
View handbook
Your Career in Chemical Engineering
A degree in chemical engineering will prepare you to design processes for manufacturing new chemical products or to improve the safety and efficiency of existing processes. Your career may be in traditional fields such as the oil and gas industry or in new and developing fields in carbon management and biotechnology.
Estimated Starting Salary
$65,000 - $75,000
Career Pathways
Chemical Products:
Biochemical and biomedical
Polymer materials
Reaction engineering and catalysis
New/alternative energy
Consumer Products:
Food and nutritional products
Environmental engineering
Process systems engineering
Microelectronics and personal electronics
Pharmaceutical Industry:
Particle technology
Gene therapy
Drug discover, delivery, and manufacturing
Separation processes
See the Student Experience
Virtual Tour
Information for Future Students
Explore Other Programs
Financial Aid
Campus Living
Costs and Fees
Visit S&T
Admissions
Follow Linda and Bipin Doshi Department of Chemical and Biochemical Engineering
Facebook
Linked In
Instagram