Source: https://mae.mst.edu/academic-programs/bachelors-degree-in-aerospace-engineering/

Earn a Bachelor's Degree in Aerospace Engineering
Aerospace engineers specialize in flight systems that operate in the earth’s atmosphere and in space, whether it be autonomous systems, airplanes, rockets or helicopters.
Our students recognize that the AE program is challenging and exhilarating, while employers seek out our students knowing they will add exceptional value to the industry.
Apply now
Want to Know More?
Get info on our program, scholarships, how to visit campus, admissions and more. Take the next step in solving for tomorrow!
Request info
Degree Information
Curriculum
Our bachelor of science degree in aerospace engineering consists of 128 credit hours. As a freshman, you will be admitted into the foundational engineering program, but you can choose an aerospace engineering preference. If you choose this route, you may qualify for freshmen scholarships within the department. You will be admitted to the aerospace engineering program after completing the freshman year requirements.
For more information, check out the university catalog:
View catalog
Foundational engineering
As an incoming student, you'll work toward completing common freshman year courses while acquiring information to help you determine a major and career. During the first two or three semesters on campus, you will take a set of courses that are required by all engineering departments. After successfully completing the
common freshmen year academic requirements
, you'll formally apply for admission to the mechanical and aerospace engineering department. Admission is nearly automatic if you've completed these requirements and the MAE admission requirements.
Learn more about the program:
FOUNDATIONAL ENGINEERING
Department admission requirements
The following guidelines are used in evaluating applications for admission to the ME and AE degree programs.
Not currently on probation or deficiency status.
Completed Math 1214 or 1211, Math 1215, Phys 1135, and Chem 1310 with a C or better.
A cumulative GPA ≥ 2.5. The cumulative GPA includes both S&T and transfer courses. It includes any GPA adjustment from the grade replacement policy.
UM cumulative GPA ≥ 2.5. The UM cumulative GPA includes courses taken at any of the University of Missouri campuses. It includes all grades for any repeated courses, with no GPA adjustment from the repeat course GPA adjustment policy.
A cumulative Math and Science GPA ≥ 2.25. The cumulative Math and Science GPA includes all courses listed below that have been completed at the time of application to the ME or AE program. It includes all grades for any repeated courses, with no GPA adjustment from the repeat course GPA adjustment policy.
Math and science courses to be included in the Math and Science GPA:
Math 1214 or 1211, Math1215, Phys 1135, Chem 1310, Math 2222, Math 3304, Phys 2135, ME/AE 2360, ME 2519, AE 2861, CE 2200, CE 2210, EE 2800
Students are allowed to continue taking the sophomore level ME or AE courses in order to satisfy the admission requirements and re-apply for admission. However, graduation from the ME or AE program expects official admission to the program before the junior year ME or AE courses are begun.
Students not meeting the above standards may request special consideration only for unusual circumstances by including with the application a written statement, including motivation for the choice of the degree program and justification for why special consideration is warranted. Consideration of exceptions will be made based on convincing evidence of likelihood of success in the program, as well as on availability of space in the program.
Grad Track Pathway program
The Grad Track Pathway offers early provisional admission to the master’s degree program to exceptional undergraduate students and is designed for these students to earn coursework credit towards their master’s degree while completing their bachelor’s degree in the same discipline.
Learn more
.
What Students Say About S&T
I've always be driven by my obsession with all things air and space, and have always had an interest in the military. I found S&T and realized not only did it have the aerospace degree I was looking for, but it had an Air Force ROTC Detachment as well. I decided to give both a go….and the rest is history.
— Danielle Gines, United States
When looking at colleges, S&T’s aerospace program offered the most competitive degree, and the emphasis and opportunity to participate in experiential learning, be it through the Student Design and Experiential Learning Center or more commonly through senior design projects, appealed to me from the start.
— Matthew Fogle, United States
Your Career in Aerospace Engineering
As an aerospace engineer, you can choose from a wide variety of careers, including research, design and development, field service, marketing, software development and teaching.
Most aerospace engineers work directly within the aerospace industry designing and developing flight-worthy aircraft.
Starting Salary
The average salary for S&T students in the last year was $64,382.
Career Paths
Commercial aerospace engineers
Spacecraft designers
Inspectors and compliance officers
Mechanical engineers and drafters
Aerospace Engineers Work With:
Aircraft manufacturers
NASA centers and other federally-funded research and development centers
Engine manufacturers
Commercial space companies
Helicopter manufacturers
Government agencies and labs
Electricity generation in power plants
Airlines
See the Undergraduate Student Experience
Virtual Tour
Information for Future Students
Explore Other Programs
Financial Aid
Campus Living
Costs and Fees
Visit S&T
Admissions
Follow Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Facebook
Twitter
Linked In
Youtube
Instagram