Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/chemical-process-engineering/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Chemical Process Engineering
Chemical and Biochemical Engineering
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
This certificate program allows working professionals to add to skills relevant to their career while developing a deeper understanding of chemical engineering fundamentals.
There is one core course and three electives required to complete this program.
Select one core course from the following:
ChemEng 5100 Intermediate Transport Phenomena (LEC 3.0)
ChemEng 5110 Intermediate Chemical Reactor Design (
LEC 3.0
)
ChemEng 5150 Intermediate Chemical Process Flowsheeting (
LEC 2.0/LAB 1.0
)
ChemEng 5220 Intermediate Engineering Thermodynamics (
LEC 3.0
)
Elective Courses: Select three additional (3.0 credit hours each) ChemEng courses at the 5000 or 6000-level. This may include additional core courses listed above.
For course descriptions, go online to the
graduate course catalog
, or
click here
.
Distance application requirements
The Chemical Process Engineering Certificate is open to all persons holding a B.S
.
, M
.
S., or Ph.D. degree in Chemical Engineering or a closely allied discipline with an overall undergraduate GPA of 3.0 or to all persons holding a B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. degree in Chemical Engineering or a closely allied discipline with an overall undergraduate GPA of 2.75 and having a minimum of one year of work experience or are currently accepted into a graduate degree program at Missouri S&T. Once admitted to the program, the student must take the four designated courses (provided in the curriculum section). In order to receive a Graduate Certificate, the student must have an average cumulative grade point of 3.0 or better in the certificate courses. Once admitted to the program, a student will be given three years to complete the program.
Students admitted to the Chemical Process Engineering Certificate Program will have non-degree graduate status, however, they will earn graduate credit for the course they complete. If the student completes the four-course sequence with a grade of B or better in each of the courses taken, they, upon application, will be admitted to the M.S. degree program in Chemical Process Engineering
.
The certificate credits taken by the students admitted to the M.S. degree program will
count towards their master's degrees. Students who do not have all of the prerequisite courses necessary to begin the courses in the Chemical Process Engineering Certificate Program will be allowed to take ''bridge" courses at either the graduate or undergraduate level to prepare for the formal certificate courses.
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby, Associate Director for Online Admissions
Phone: 573-341-6903
Email:
stgrad@mst.edu
Chemical Engineering
Dr. Jee C Wang
Graduate Coordinator
110 Bertelsmeyer Hall
Rolla, MO 65409-1230
Phone: 573-341-6705
Email:
jcwang@mst.edu