Source: https://emse.mst.edu/academicprograms/systemsengineering/graduate/

Graduate degrees and certificates
The department of engineering management and systems engineering offers a Master of Science and Doctor of Philosophy, as well as a number of graduate certificates in systems engineering.
Master of Science
This program is offered in person on the main campus in Rolla and at several locations including the Missouri S&T Engineering Education Center in St. Louis. It is also offered through distance education throughout the country and in select international locations.
More information
Doctor of Philosophy
You must have completed the equivalent of at least three years of full-time work beyond a bachelor’s degree to be considered for this program. As a student in the program, you will conduct original research under the supervision of an advisor, and write and successfully defend a dissertation. You must normally spend at least two sequential semesters in full-time residence at the university.
More information
Graduate Certificates
This program is designed to appeal to working professionals, and is open to anyone holding a Bachelor of Science, Master of Science or Ph.D. degree in engineering or a physical science and has a minimum of 12 months of professional employment experience or is currently accepted into a graduate degree program at Missouri S&T. Certificate courses taken for graduate credit can be counted toward a Master of Science degree once you are accepted into the program.
More information
Department Admission Requirements
B.S. in Engineering or Physical Science (Biology, Chemistry, Computer Science, Geophysics, Math, Physics)
Undergraduate Courses:
Calculus Series (I, II, III)
Differential Equations or Linear Algebra
Statistics
Physics or Chemistry
Engineering Economy (can be taken during the M.S. or Ph.D. program)
Cumulative GPA (based on 4.0 scale / total or last 60 hours):
=>2.75 for Certificates
=>3.0 for M.S.
=>3.5 for Ph.D.
Letters of Recommendation:
0 for M.S. non-thesis
2 for M.S thesis
3 for Ph.D.
English Proficiency Scores (International Students):
TOEFL => 80
IELTS => 6.5
PTE => 58
Duolingo => 115
Program Information
EMSE Graduate Handbook, Rev 2.1
Forms and Deadlines
Contact Information:
Kimberly Lindstrom
Certificate & MS Students: A-L
klindstrom@mst.edu
231 Engineering Management
Marjie Grimshaw
Certificate & MS Students: M-Z
PhD Students
grimshawm@mst.edu
223 Engineering Management
Systems Engineering Certification Equivalency
The INCOSE Certification Program has recently begun to recognize academic programs as an alternative to the INCOSE knowledge exam as a way for individuals to prove their systems engineering knowledge.  Students in these programs will be able to bypass the knowledge exam on their path to becoming an Associate Systems Engineering Professional (ASEP) or Ceritified Systems Engineering Professional (CSEP).
If you want to take this opportunity to be an ASEP or CSEP, here is
How to Apply - INCOSE ASEP-CSEP Certification
and
Follow Engineering Management and Systems Engineering
Facebook