Source: https://biosci.mst.edu/academicprograms/phdinbiologicalsciences/

Earn a PhD in Biological Sciences
The Biological Sciences Department offers a Ph.D. program with opportunities in interest areas that align with the diverse expertise of our Graduate Faculty. Students who pursue a Ph.D. degree with us have the opportunity to develop a plan of study in one of three broad areas reflecting the strengths of the department, including Bioinovation, Biomedicine, and Environmental Biology.
Our doctoral program emphasizes the core knowledge, interdisciplinary training, problem-solving skills, and data analytical expertise necessary for our students to become scientific leaders at the forefront of advances in human and environmental health. Graduates with a Ph.D. degree may pursue rewarding careers in industry, public agency, or academia.
Apply now
Want to Know More?
Get info on our program, scholarships, how to visit campus, admissions and more. Take the next step in solving for tomorrow!
Request info
Degree Information
Areas of Study
Students choose among three areas of study:
BioInnovation
, Biomedicine, and Environmental Biology.
Program Requirements
The Biological Sciences Ph.D. program at Missouri S&T will require 72 hours of graduate credit. For students who enter the program directly with a baccalaureate degree, this will include a minimum of 30 credit hours of 5000-, and 6000-level lecture courses, and a minimum of 30 credit hours of graduate research. Students who enter with a master’s degree may transfer in 30 credit hours which will count toward the total seventy-two-hour program requirement. Students entering with an MS will be required to complete a minimum of 12 hours of 6000-level lecture courses, and 24 credit hours of graduate research.
Qualifying and Comprehensive Exams
A qualifying exam based upon a research proposal written and defended by the student will be successfully completed no later than the end of the fifth semester of enrollment, and a plan of study will be approved by a student’s advisory committee by the end of the semester in which the qualifying exam is passed. A comprehensive exam will be completed after the student has completed their coursework. Upon conclusion of research, the student will complete a written dissertation and successfully defend the dissertation in their final exam (defense).
Data Analytic Competency
All students in the Biological Sciences Ph.D. program will complete a minimum of 6 hours of data analytic competency courses. Options include any graduate courses in statistics or any graduate computer programming, database management, machine-learning, or artificial intelligence courses.
Industry Preparation
Graduate students who are interested in industry career paths will be strongly encouraged to cultivate industry connections and to perform an industry-supported internship prior to graduation.
Graduate Student Handbook
Explore the Graduate Student Handbook for comprehensive information on the program and department, ensuring you have all the information for a successful academic journey.
Graduate Student Handbook
Your Career in Biological Sciences
The biological sciences drive solutions to global challenges like healthcare, food security, renewable energy, and environmental management. They underpin industries for economic growth. Ph.D. degrees are pivotal for leadership in solving these challenges, with Missouri S&T excelling in research at the intersection of science and technology.
Estimated Starting Salary
$70,000 - $95,000
Career Pathways
Academia/Research Institutions:
Professor/Research Faculty
Principal Investigator
Industry and Public Agency:
Environmental Scientist
Soil and Plant Scientist
Conservation Scientist
Bioinformaticist
Data Scientist
Microbiologist
Geneticist
Entrepreneurship and Startups:
Biotech Entrepreneur
Consultant
Research in Biology
Research in the department is funded through external grants and contracts from federal agencies, including the National Science Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, the Department of Energy, the Environmental Protection Agency, agencies within the Department of Defense, state agencies, and company partnerships.
Specialized Areas of Research
BioInnovation and BioDesign
Molecular biomarkers of fitness
Physiology
Toxicity and toxicology
Aging and regenerative medicine
Environmental microbiology
Ecosystem function and dysfunction
Biodiversity and conservation biology
Science education
See the Student Experience
Virtual Tour
Information for Future Students
Explore Other Programs
Financial Aid
Campus Living
Costs and Fees
Visit S&T
Admissions
Follow Biological Sciences
Facebook
Twitter