Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/systems-engineering/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Systems Engineering
Engineering Management and Systems Engineering
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
The systems engineering graduate certificate program provides structured training in the fundamentals of systems engineering to equip engineers with the skills that can be used in the design, operation, and maintenance of systems throughout their life cycle. The techniques covered and concepts introduced are applicable to any industry. The broad application of these techniques is necessary as the engineering systems of the future become more complex, making them difficult to design and operate without an understanding of the whole and effective integration of all components, from design to disposal. Although industrial experience is a key factor in systems engineering, it needs to be supported by formal education.
Admission requirements
The certificate program is open to all persons holding a bachelor's, master's or doctorate degree in engineering or a physical science and who have a minimum of one year of professional employment experience, or are currently accepted into a graduate degree program at Missouri S&T.
Bachelor's degree in engineering or a physical science
Undergraduate courses: Calculus Series (I,II,III), Differential Equations, Statistics, Physics or Chemistry, Engineering Economy
Undergraduate GPA
≥
2.75 cumulative
TOEFL: All international applicants must submit a current TOEFL score, regardless of prior academic experience or place of study. Regular status: 580/237/92
The certificate program consists of four courses. In order to receive a graduate certificate, you must earn a cumulative GPA ≥ 3.0 in the four certificate courses taken.
Students admitted to the certificate program will have non-degree graduate status, but will earn graduate credit for the courses they complete.
Once admitted to the certificate program, you will have three years to complete the certificate, as long as you maintain a B average in the courses taken.
Distance application requirements
Students applying for a graduate certificate must submit the following:
Completed Application
Statement of Purpose
Transcripts
Online Application
When you start a new application, select "Graduate Online/Distance" and then select the certificate program.
Don't forget to list your current employer and company location on the application.
Statement of purpose should be 2-3 paragraphs explaining why you are applying for this program.
Statement is to be submitted electronically on the
online application
; you'll copy and paste it into the provided text box.
Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for an admit decision.
Upload your transcripts on the
online application
under your "Institutional Data." If you previously attended S&T, you must upload your transcript. An unofficial transcript can be requested through Joe’SS.
How to Request Unofficial Transcripts
(pdf)
PDF scans are preferred.
The university requires official transcripts from all schools attended before a student may register for a second semester.
In order for a transcript to be counted as official it must be sent directly from the school to S&T, it cannot come from a student.
Official transcripts should be mailed to Global Learning:
Missouri University of Science and Technology
Office of Global Learning
G8 Norwood Hall, 320 West 12th Street
Rolla, MO 65409
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
Related Degrees
This graduate certificate may act as a pathway to the following master’s programs:
Engineering Management
(MS)
Systems Engineering
(MS)
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby
Associate Director for Online Admissions
573-341-6903  |
stgrad@mst.edu
Engineering Management and Systems Engineering
573-341-4572  |
emgt@mst.edu
Toll Free: 1-800-441-5218
Department Website:
emse.mst.edu