Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/information-systems-and-cloud-computing/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Information Systems & Cloud Computing
Computer Science
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
This certificate program is tailored to the working professional who wants to expand their knowledge of advanced data management technologies. Cloud computing, object-oriented database structure, data mining, and mobile database systems form the core of the study.
Admission requirements
Students entering a graduate certificate program must have a bachelor’s degree and satisfy the prerequisites for any course they take in the program. For a full listing of course descriptions and prerequisites, please reference the
graduate course catalog
.
Admission into MS Graduate Program:
A student who completes a graduate certificate program in computer science with grades of B or better will be admitted into the master's degree program in computer science at Missouri University of Science and Technology.
1
1
The student may be accepted as a "conditional" graduate student.
Such students will need to complete additional prerequisite
requirements before they are classified as "regular" graduate students.
For more information go online at
https://cs.mst.edu/programs/graduate/masterofscience/
Missouri S&T is certified by the
National Security Agency
(NSA) Committee on National Security Systems (CNSS) for National Standards 4011 ( National Training Standard for Information Systems Security (INFOSEC) Professionals) and 4014E ( Information Assurance Training Standard for Information Systems Security Officers (ISSO)).
Distance application requirements
Students applying for a graduate certificate must submit the following:
Completed Application
Statement of Purpose
Transcripts
Online Application
When you start a new application, select "Graduate Online/Distance" and then select the certificate program.
Don't forget to list your current employer and company location on the application.
Statement of purpose should be 2-3 paragraphs explaining why you are applying for this program.
Statement is to be submitted electronically on the
online application
; you'll copy and paste it into the provided text box.
Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for an admit decision.
Upload your transcripts on the
online application
under your "Institutional Data." If you previously attended S&T, you must upload your transcript. An unofficial transcript can be requested through Joe’SS.
How to Request Unofficial Transcripts
(pdf)
PDF scans are preferred.
The university requires official transcripts from all schools attended before a student may register for a second semester.
In order for a transcript to be counted as official it must be sent directly from the school to S&T, it cannot come from a student.
Official transcripts should be mailed to Global Learning:
Missouri University of Science and Technology
Office of Global Learning
G8 Norwood Hall, 320 West 12th Street
Rolla, MO 65409
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
Related Degrees
This graduate certificate may act as a pathway to the following master’s programs:
Computer Science
(MS)
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby, Associate Director for Online Admissions
Phone: 573-341-6903
Email:
stgrad@mst.edu
Computer Science
Dr. Ricardo Morales
Assistant Teaching Professor
Computer Science
340 Computer Science Bldg.
500 W. 15th St.
Rolla, MO 65409-0350
Phone: 573-341-6350
Email:
csgradcoord@mst.edu
Web:
cs.mst.edu