Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/space-resources/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Space Resources
Geological Engineering
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
This certificate program is designed to provide a pathway for aerospace and non-aerospace engineering professionals to enter the emerging field of space-based resource discovery and production. The certificate requires our department’s new course in space resources (GeoEng 5810) and allows students to pick three courses from multiple disciplines of science and engineering; including aerospace, chemical, geological, mining, and materials.
Curriculum:
The following course is required:
GEO ENG 5810 Fundamentals of Space Resources
Choose one course from the following space mechanic area:
AERO ENG 3613 Aerospace Mechanics
AERO ENG 5313 Intermediate Dynamics of Mechanical and Aerospace Systems
Choose one course from the following exploration area:
GEO ENG 5144 Remote Sensing Technology
GEO ENG 5443 Subsurface Exploration
GEOLOGY 4731 Astronomy and Planetary Science
Choose one course from the following processing area:
CHEM ENG 4110 Chemical Process Dynamics and Control
CHEM ENG 5110 Intermediate Chemical Reactor Design
CHEM ENG 5190 Plantwide Process Control
MATL S&E 6120 Thermodynamics and Phase Equilibria
Curriculum is subject to change. Other courses approved by the program coordinator may be substituted for any of the above listed courses on a case-by-case basis.
Admission requirements
The graduate certificate program is
open to all persons holding a B.S
.
, M
.
S., or Ph.D. degree in, geological engineering, geotechnics, civil engineering, mining engineering, ceramic engineering, chemical engineering, metallurgical engineering or aerospace engineering or who are currently accepted into a graduate degree program in one of these fields at Missouri S&T. Once admitted to the program, the student must take the four designated courses (provided in the curriculum section). In order to receive a graduate gertificate, the student must have an average cumulative grade point of 3.0 or better in the certificate courses. Once admitted to the program, a student will be given three years to complete the program.
Students admitted to the
certificate program will have non-degree graduate status, however, they will earn graduate credit for the courses they complete. If the student completes the four-course sequence with a grade of B or better in each of the courses taken, they, upon application, will be admitted to their choice of graduate degree programs in either geological engineering or geotechnics
.  Admission to other engineering programs will be at the discretion of those programs.
The certificate credits taken by the students admitted to the graduate degree program will count towards their degree. Students who do not have all of the prerequisite courses necessary to begin the courses in the
Space Resources
Certificate Program will be allowed to take ''bridge" courses at either the graduate or undergraduate level to prepare for the formal certificate courses.
Distance application requirements
Students applying for a graduate certificate must submit the following:
Completed Application
Statement of Purpose
Transcripts
Online Application
When you start a new application, select "Graduate Online/Distance" and then select the certificate program.
Don't forget to list your current employer and company location on the application.
Statement of purpose should be 2-3 paragraphs explaining why you are applying for this program.
Statement is to be submitted electronically on the
online application
; you'll copy and paste it into the provided text box.
Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for an admit decision.
Upload your transcripts on the
online application
under your "Institutional Data." If you previously attended S&T, you must upload your transcript. An unofficial transcript can be requested through Joe’SS.
How to Request Unofficial Transcripts
(pdf)
PDF scans are preferred.
The university requires official transcripts from all schools attended before a student may register for a second semester.
In order for a transcript to be counted as official it must be sent directly from the school to S&T, it cannot come from a student.
Official transcripts should be mailed to Global Learning:
Missouri University of Science and Technology
Office of Global Learning
G8 Norwood Hall, 320 West 12th Street
Rolla, MO 65409
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
Related Degrees
This graduate certificate may act as a pathway to the following master’s programs:
Geotechnics
(ME)
Geological Engineering
(MS)
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby, Associate Director for Online Admissions
Phone: 573-341-6903
Email:
stgrad@mst.edu
GEOLOGICAL ENGINEERING
Dr. Ryan Smith
Assistant Professor of Geological Engineering
129 McNutt Hall
Rolla, MO 65409
Email:
smithryang@mst.edu
Phone: 573-341-4466