Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/explosives-technology_certificate/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Explosives Technology
Mining and Explosives Engineering
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
This certificate program is designed to provide formalized education in the area of explosives. Students will be exposed to the theoretical and practical approaches of explosives technology. Students will learn analysis and design of explosive-related systems and both natural and built structure effects.
Admission requirements
The explosives technology certificate program is open to all graduates holding a BA, or advanced higher degree that has a mathematics background through trigonometry (Missouri S&T Math 6 or equivalent) and a minimum of 12-months of post-BA professional employment experience.
The student must have a cumulative GPA of 3.0 or higher in the four courses required for this graduate certificate. Students admitted to a graduate certificate program will have non-degree student status, but will earn graduate credit for the courses they complete. If the four-course sequence is completed with a grade of B or better in each of the courses taken, the student, upon application, will be admitted to the MS degree in explosives engineering, but will be precluded from taking any graduate courses until successful completion of the following prerequisite courses:
S&T Chem 1310 (1) General Chemistry 1 (or equivalent)
S&T Chem 1319 (2) General Chemistry 1 Lab (or equivalent)
S&T Chem 1100 (4) Intro to Lab Safety & Hazardous Materials (or equivalent)
S&T Math 1214 (14) Calculus for Engineers 1 (or equivalent)
S&T Math 1215 (15) Calculus for Engineers 2 (or equivalent)
S&T Physics 1135 (23) Engineering Physics 1 (or equivalent)
S&T IDE 2340 (140) Statics and Dynamics (or equivalent)
The certificate courses taken by students admitted to the MS program will apply toward their master’s degrees. Once admitted to a certificate program, a student will be given three years to complete the program so long as he or she maintains at least a B average in the courses taken.
The applicant must also pass a background check.
Click here
for more information on admissions.
Distance application requirements
Students applying for a graduate certificate must submit the following:
Completed Application
Statement of Purpose
Transcripts
Online Application
When you start a new application, select "Graduate Online/Distance" and then select the certificate program.
Don't forget to list your current employer and company location on the application.
Statement of purpose should be 2-3 paragraphs explaining why you are applying for this program.
Statement is to be submitted electronically on the
online application
; you'll copy and paste it into the provided text box.
Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for an admit decision.
Upload your transcripts on the
online application
under your "Institutional Data." If you previously attended S&T, you must upload your transcript. An unofficial transcript can be requested through Joe’SS.
How to Request Unofficial Transcripts
(pdf)
PDF scans are preferred.
The university requires official transcripts from all schools attended before a student may register for a second semester.
In order for a transcript to be counted as official it must be sent directly from the school to S&T, it cannot come from a student.
Official transcripts should be mailed to Global Learning:
Missouri University of Science and Technology
Office of Global Learning
G8 Norwood Hall, 320 West 12th Street
Rolla, MO 65409
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
Related Degrees
This graduate certificate may act as a pathway to the following master’s programs:
Mining Engineering
(MS)
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby, Associate Director for Online Admissions
Phone: 573-341-6903
Email:
stgrad@mst.edu
Explosives Engineering
226 McNutt Hall
1400 N. Bishop
Rolla, MO 65409-0450
(573) 341-765-4753
web:
mee.mst.edu
Mining and Explosives Engineering
Kathleen German
Administrative Assistant
Phone: 573-341-4753
Email:
kg2kv@mst.edu