Source: https://ece.mst.edu/academic-programs/computer-engineering/undergraduate-degree/

Undergraduate Degree in Computer Engineering
Undergraduate Program
Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering
The Bachelor of Science in computer engineering gives students a well-rounded education in all parts of computer systems: computer hardware, electrical circuits and software programming. Ample opportunity is available to explore specific computer engineering topics through upper-level electives and hands-on experience through labs and design teams.
CpE Undergraduate Handbook and Course Information 2024
University Catalog for B.S. in Computer Engineering
Computer Engineering Course Frequency List (Updated 2024)
Freshman engineering
As an engineering freshman, you'll work toward completing common freshman year courses while acquiring information to help you determine a major and career. During the first two or three semesters on campus, you will take a set of courses that are required by all engineering departments. After successfully completing the freshman engineering requirements, you'll formally apply for admission to the computer engineering department. Admission is nearly automatic if you have completed these requirements.
Our bachelor of science degree in computer engineering consists of 128 credit hours. As part of the Freshman Engineering Program (FEP), you can choose a computer engineering preference and qualify for freshmen scholarships within the department.
Visit the FEP website for more information:
Freshman Engineering Program
Dual degree in electrical and computer engineering
You can earn a bachelor of science degree in both electrical and computer engineering
by taking about one semester of additional coursework.
Dual Degree Course Plan
Dual degree in computer engineering and computer science
You can get a Bachelor of Science degree in both computer engineering and computer science by taking about one semester of additional coursework.
Dual Degree Course Plan
Minors and Emphasis Areas
Our emphasis area options help you focus on your interests and career goals. You will complete at least three (3 credit hour courses) with one of those courses being a 4000 level course in that area to complete an emphasis.
View Minor Catalog Information
View Emphasis Area Catalog Information
Note:
Forms for Change of Major and Application for Minor are found on the registrar’s website
To apply for the
certificate
, fill out a Change of Major form. Complete the top of the form. In box 1, fill out your major. In the next line (emphasis area) fill in the certificate you have completed (
Computational Intelligence
, etc.). Then Fill in the expected graduation date. Fill in the name of your academic advisor. Lastly, send the form to the Department Chair for signature.
Minor - Computer Engineering
If you are earning another degree at S&T, you can obtain a minor in computer engineering by taking 18 credit hours in the area.
Emphasis Area - Computational Intelligence
With a computational intelligence emphasis, you will learn about topics such as clustering, adaptive resonance and reinforcement learning architectures, learning and adaptation, hardware and applications, neuro-fuzzy regression, traveling salesman problem heuristics, robotic swarms, bioinformatics, medical informatics, machine vision and automation.
Emphasis Area - Computer Architecture and Embedded Systems
With a computer architecture and embedded systems emphasis, you will learn about topics such as high performance systems, parallel processors, GPU computing, and heterogeneous systems architecture, real-time systems, real-time digital signal processing, and embedded systems design.
Emphasis Area - Integrated Circuits and Logic Design
With an integrated circuits and logic design emphasis, you will learn about the design and modeling of digital integrated circuits, design of digital systems, computer architecture, and fault tolerant systems.
Emphasis Area - Networking, Security, and Dependability
With a networking, security, and dependability emphasis, you will learn about analysis and synthesis, network security, wireless networks, and fault tolerance.
The Graduate Track Pathway (GTP) Program
(formerly Accelerated BS/MS)
The Graduate Track Pathway (GTP) program offers early
provisional admission to the MS program
to exceptional undergraduate students and is designed for these students to earn coursework credit towards their Electrical Engineering (EE) or Computer Engineering (CpE) MS degree while completing their BS degree in EE or CpE. Students may begin working on their MS study (either thesis or non-thesis options) as an undergraduate and may apply up to nine ECE lecture credit hours (5xxx-level or above) to satisfy both BS and MS requirements.
Explore Program
Apply for admission
To apply for admission to Missouri S&T, choose the selection below that best describes your application status.
First-time freshman
Transfer
Dual-enrollment
International
Military
Learn more about
admissions here
.
573-341-6731
Email
Apply to S&T
Request program info
View estimated costs
Follow Electrical and Computer Engineering
Facebook
Linked In