Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/nuclear-nonproliferation/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Nuclear Nonproliferation
Mining and Nuclear Engineering
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
The nuclear engineering program offers a graduate certificate program to professionals and students who desire to undergo formal instruction in nuclear nonproliferation. The topics in comprising the certificate program are selected from courses available to graduate students in the nuclear engineering program at Missouri University of Science and Technology. All courses are available both in traditional on-campus delivery and online format. The certificate program deployment strategy allows all enrollees to pace their study in manner consistent with the individual's plans.
Curriculum:
The certificate program requires 4 courses equivalent to 12 credit hours.  There are 8 courses available to the certificate program, 1 of which is required for the completion of the graduate certificate in nuclear nonproliferation.  Program enrollees may select any 3 of the remaining  7 courses toward the completion of the graduate certificate.  Enrollees may take 1 or 2 classes each semester so that the certificate program may be completed within 1 to 2 years.
Required Course:
NUC ENG 5509 Nuclear Nonproliferation
Elective Courses:
NUC ENG 5207 Nuclear Fuel Cycle
NUC ENG 5281 Probabilistic Risk Assessment I
NUC ENG 5312 Nuclear Radiation Measurements and Spectroscopy
NUC ENG 5347 Radiological Engineering
NUC ENG 5577 Nuclear Forensics
NUC ENG 5507 Nuclear Policy
NUC ENG 6331 Radiation Shielding
Admission requirements
The Graduate Certificate in Nuclear Nonproliferation is open to all persons holding a B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. degree in Engineering, Science, and/or Mathematics as well as related B.A. or M.A. degrees, or are currently accepted into a graduate degree program at Missouri S&T. Once admitted to the program, the student must take the four designated courses (provided in the curriculum section). In order to receive a Graduate Certificate, the student must have an average cumulative grade point of 3.0 or better in the certificate courses. Students who do not have English as first language may be required to provide evidence of English language proficiency. Once admitted to the program, a student will be given three years to complete the program.
Students admitted to the Graduate Certificate in Nuclear Nonproliferation Program will have non-degree graduate status, however, they will earn graduate credit for the course they complete. If the student completes the four-course sequence with a grade of B or better in each of the courses taken, they, upon application, will be admitted to the M.S. degree program in Nuclear Engineering. The certificate credits taken by the students admitted to the M.S. degree program will count towards their master's degrees.
Students who do not have all of the prerequisite courses necessary to begin the courses in the Graduate Certificate in Nuclear Nonproliferation Program will be allowed to take "bridge" courses at either the graduate or undergraduate level to prepare for the formal certificate courses.
Distance application requirements
Students applying for a graduate certificate must submit the following:
Completed Application
Statement of Purpose
Transcripts
Online Application
When you start a new application, select "Graduate Online/Distance" and then select the certificate program.
Don't forget to list your current employer and company location on the application.
Statement of purpose should be 2-3 paragraphs explaining why you are applying for this program.
Statement is to be submitted electronically on the
online application
; you'll copy and paste it into the provided text box.
Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for an admit decision.
Upload your transcripts on the
online application
under your "Institutional Data." If you previously attended S&T, you must upload your transcript. An unofficial transcript can be requested through Joe’SS.
How to Request Unofficial Transcripts
(pdf)
PDF scans are preferred.
The university requires official transcripts from all schools attended before a student may register for a second semester.
In order for a transcript to be counted as official it must be sent directly from the school to S&T, it cannot come from a student.
Official transcripts should be mailed to Global Learning:
Missouri University of Science and Technology
Office of Global Learning
G8 Norwood Hall, 320 West 12th Street
Rolla, MO 65409
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby, Associate Director for Online Admissions
Phone: 573-341-6903
Email:
stgrad@mst.edu
Nuclear Engineering
Dr. Joseph Graham
Associate Professor, Associate Chair of Research and Director of Nuclear Reactor
231 Fulton Hall
Rolla, MO 65409
Phone: 573-341-7759
Email:
grahamjose@mst.edu
Web:
nuclear.mst.edu/