Source: https://ece.mst.edu/academic-programs/electrical-engineering/undergraduate-degree/

Undergraduate Degree in Electrical Engineering
Undergraduate Program
Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering
The Bachelor of Science in electrical engineering is built on fundamental concepts of circuits, electronics, devices, signal processing, controls, electromagnetics and power. Ample opportunity is available to explore these areas in more detail in upper-level electives, as well as during hands-on experience in labs and design teams.
EE Undergraduate Handbook and Course Info-2024
University Catalog for B.S. in Electrical Engineering
Electrical Engineering Course Frequency List (Updated 2024)
Freshman engineering
As an engineering freshman, you'll work toward completing common freshman year courses while acquiring information to help you determine a major and career. During the first two or three semesters on campus, you will take a set of courses that are required by all engineering departments. After successfully completing the freshman engineering requirements, you'll formally apply for admission to the electrical engineering department. Admission is nearly automatic if you've completed these requirements.
Our bachelor of science degree in electrical engineering consists of 128 credit hours. As part of the Freshman Engineering Program (FEP), you can choose an electrical engineering preference and qualify for freshmen scholarships within the department.
Visit the FEP website for more information:
Freshman Engineering Program
Dual degree in electrical and computer engineering
You can earn a bachelor of science degree in both electrical and computer engineering
by taking about one semester of additional coursework.
Dual Degree Course Plan
Minors and Emphasis Areas
Our minor and different emphasis area options help you focus on your interests and career goals. Complete 15 credit hours of approved courses to establish a minor and/or at least three (3 credit hour courses) with one of those courses being a 4000 level course in that area to complete an emphasis.
View Minor Catalog Information
View Emphasis Area Catalog Information
Note:
Forms for Change of Major and Application for Minor are found on the registrar’s website
To apply for the
certificate
, fill out a Change of Major form. Complete the top of the form. In box 1, fill out your major. In the next line (emphasis area) fill in the certificate you have completed (Automation, etc.). Then Fill in the expected graduation date. Fill in the name of your academic advisor. Lastly, send the form to the Department Chair for signature.
Minor - Electrical Engineering
If you are earning another degree at S&T, you can obtain a minor in electrical engineering by taking 18 credit hours in the area.
Minor - Automation Engineering
Automation engineering is cross-disciplinary between chemical engineering, electrical engineering, and mechanical engineering and involves controlling a manufacturing process. This minor is of interest to many companies involved in the manufacturing of a wide range of products including food, beverage, chemicals, petro-chemicals, steel, aluminum, tires, automobiles, and semiconductors.
Emphasis Area - Circuits and Electronics
Courses provide study of basic electrical devices - energy sources, resistors, inductors, capacitors, diodes, and transistors - and their interconnection in operational networks. Circuits design and analysis techniques are covered with both analog and digital applications.
Emphasis Area - Communications and Signal Processing
Courses include concepts required for the characterization and manipulation of information-bearing signals, modulation systems, wireless networks, image processing and detection hardware.
Emphasis Area - Computer Engineering
Courses are offered in digital logic, digital hardware and microprocessor systems. Other studies are available for learning embedded computer systems, computer architecture, integrated circuits, computational intelligence, networks and software engineering, and software security and reliability.
Emphasis Area - Controls and Systems
Courses emphasize the design and application of circuits and systems to automatically monitor and regulate devices, machines and processes. Advanced technologies using digital control, intelligent processing, neural networks and programmable logic controllers are included in the courses.
Emphasis Area - Electromagnetics Emphasis
Courses provide instruction in the interaction, propagation, and transmission of high-frequency waves and signals through space and in conductors. Topics include grounding and shielding, antennas, microwaves and systems.
Emphasis Area - Optics and Devices
Courses provide study of solid-state materials, electronic devices, and optoelectronics. Applications include microfabrication, telecommunications, computing, instrumentation, lasers and fiber optics, sensing and smart technologies.
Emphasis Area - Power and Energy
Courses emphasize the design and applications of motors, generators, transformers, distribution systems, power electronics, and photovoltaic systems.
The Graduate Track Pathway (GTP) Program
(formerly Accelerated BS/MS)
The Graduate Track Pathway (GTP) program offers early
provisional admission to the MS program
to exceptional undergraduate students and is designed for these students to earn coursework credit towards their Electrical Engineering (EE) or Computer Engineering (CpE) MS degree while completing their BS degree in EE or CpE. Students may begin working on their MS study (either thesis or non-thesis options) as an undergraduate and may apply up to nine ECE lecture credit hours (5xxx-level or above) to satisfy both BS and MS requirements.
Explore Program
Apply for admission
To apply for admission to Missouri S&T, choose the selection below that best describes your application status.
First-time freshman
Transfer
Dual-enrollment
International
Military
Learn more about
admissions here
.
573-341-6731
Email
Apply to S&T
Request program info
View estimated costs
Follow Electrical and Computer Engineering
Facebook
Linked In