Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-degrees/electrical-engineering/

Real Degrees for Working Professionals
Master of Science in Electrical Engineering
Gain the knowledge and skills you need to solve electrical engineering challenges.
This program prepares you to recognize and provide solutions to electrical engineering challenges. Specialization tracks include circuits, electronics, communications and signal processing, control systems, electromagnetics, power and energy and devices and optics.
Thesis and non-thesis options available. This program requires 30 credit hours of coursework for both non-thesis and thesis, with 6 hours of research required for the thesis.
Most graduate programs in electrical engineering include some specialization in one or more of the following emphasis areas.
Circuits
—
topics include network analysis and synthesis, computer-aided circuit design, communications circuits, and linear and nonlinear electronic circuits.
Communications and Signal Processing
—
topics include signal design, coding, modulation, detection, and filtering for both analog and digital systems.
Computer Engineering
—
computer engineering can be an emphasis area in electrical engineering. See
Computer Engineering
.
Control Systems Technology
—
emphasizes linear and nonlinear systems, digital control, process control system simulation, optimal control and estimation, robust control, neural networks and fuzzy logic based control systems, and control of smart structures.
Electromagnetics
—
topics include the generation, propagation, and detection of electromagnetic fields and waves. Optical topics include applications of fiber optics, optical processing, optical computing, and smart sensing.
Electronics
—
topics include circuits and networks containing active devices.
Power
—
topics include application of computer methods to power system analysis and control, power system relaying and protection, power quality load management, finite inertia power systems (such as those on ships, hybrid electric vehicles, and spacecraft), and electromechanical energy conversion devices (such as rotating machinery, power electronic converters, and electric drive systems).
Admission Requirements
Bachelor’s degree in related field from ABET-accredited university (or equivalent international)
Undergraduate GPA ≥ 3.3
GRE V+Q ≥ 305; GRE Q ≥ 155, and GRE WR > 3.5
International requirement: TOEFL ≥ 80, or satisfactory completion of an approved English language Institute program. IELTS
≥6.5
Doctorate Degree in Electrical Engineering
Please contact the academic department for details on the distance doctorate program. Email
ece@mst.edu
or call 573-341-4519.
Graduate Certificates
Your Pathway to a Graduate Degree
Start earning college credit toward a graduate degree. The GRE is not required to enter a certificate program, and credit earned may be applied toward your master’s degree.*
Electrical Engineering Graduate Certificate Programs
Advanced Control Systems
Automation Engineering and PLC
Computational Intelligence
Cyber Physical Systems
(Network Centric Systems)
Electric Machines and Drives
Electric Power Systems Engineering
*restrictions may apply
Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply. Check with the academic department for program specific details and requirements.
Learn more about the certificate to master's program
.
Accreditation
Missouri University of Science & Technology is accredited by the
Higher Learning Commission
, one of six regional institutional accreditors in the United States.
Nondegree-seeking enrollment
Prior to acceptance into the program, you may enroll in up to 6 credit hours as a nondegree-seeking (in some cases, post-baccalaureate) student. Enrollment does not guarantee acceptance. Learn more about
nondegree-seeking university student admissions
.
Licensure and disclosures
If you live outside of Missouri and are thinking about enrolling in a program that leads to professional licensure, the University of Missouri System strongly recommends that you check with the relevant licensing board in your state or the state where you plan to work. This will help you obtain the most current information about state licensure requirements before you enroll in any academic program. While Missouri University of Science & Technology strives to provide current licensure information, it's important to note that licensure regulations are subject to change.
For more details, please visit our
licensure and disclosure page
.
State authorization
States require that Missouri University of Science and Technology be authorized to deliver university-level distance/online education to their residents.
The process for authorization varies by state
.
For more details, please visit our
state authorization page
.
Authorized
Students residing in all states are eligible to enroll in this program.
Internships
Internships are encouraged for explore real-life applications of teacher leadership. Find more about available opportunities on
S&T's Career Opportunities
page.
Faculty
Our academic leaders are experts in their respective disciplines and bring extensive experience in higher education, industry, and departmental management. Learn more about the
Electrical and Computer Engineering Faculty
at S&T.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby
Associate Director for Online Admissions
573-341-6903  |
stgrad@mst.edu
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Sahra Sedigh Sarvestani, PhD
Associate Professor and Distance Coordinator
573-341-7505  |
sedighs@mst.edu
Department Website:
ece.mst.edu