Source: https://ese.mst.edu/academic-programs/geological-engineering/

Geological engineers solve problems using a variety of tools, including outdoor geological observations, engineering design, remote sensing, and computational modeling.
We protect the earth through environmental remediation and sustainable management of natural resources, such as groundwater. We protect humanity by identifying and mitigating natural hazards, such as floods, earthquakes and landslides.
Undergraduate Degree
Undergraduate Degree
Graduate Degrees
Graduate Degrees and Certificates
Distance Degrees and Certificates
$6,000 Geological Engineering Scholarship
$6,000 Geological Engineering Scholarship
A Fall 2025 scholarship is available for first-time students and undergraduate initial transfer students. 
Click to email Donna Arthur for more information.
Virtual Presentations
Virtual Presentations
Want to find out more about Geological Engineering at Missouri S&T? Register for one of our virtual presentations to learn more and ask questions.
Solving For Humanity
Your Career in Geological Engineering
Geological engineering is dynamic and exciting because of the variety of career pathways and projects available. These include, but are not limited to, geotechnical consulting, environmental consulting, water management and planning, petroleum and mining industries, and construction operations.
Career as a geological engineer
As a geological engineer, you might divide your time between field, laboratory and office work. In the field, you might examine and map the extent, structural features, and stability of rocks and soils. You may collect samples for testing of their physical and chemical properties, or you may conduct programs for on-site testing. In the laboratory, you might perform direct testing of strength and permeability, or organize research programs. Office work includes the evaluation of data, computer modeling of geological conditions, writing of scientific reports, and participation in the planning, designing and construction of engineering projects.
For more information about jobs
Visit
Career Opportunities and Employer Relations
to learn more about our biannual Career Fair.
Research
The unique structure of our department benefits our research efforts and provides students with unique opportunities for collaboration and multi-disciplinary understanding.
Research in geological engineering focuses on understanding, characterizing and assessing the shallow subsurface.
Research is offered in areas of interest to the geotechnical and environmental consulting industries and also provides students with a solid foundation for careers in the petroleum and mining sectors.
The geological engineering program specializes in the following research:
Earth Systems
Geophysics and Earth Deformation Processes
Water
Learn more about each research area
Follow Earth Sciences and Engineering
Facebook
Twitter
Linked In
Youtube
Instagram