Source: https://care.mst.edu/academic-programs/architecturalengineering/undergraduate-degree/

Earn a Bachelor's Degree in Architectural Engineering
Build tomorrow by applying today
Architectural engineers conceptualize, design and build many essential residential, commercial, industrial, and institutional facilities and structures. Our alumni are in great demand for rapidly growing fields, and we believe in preparing our students through active and experiential learning in our laboratories and in our design and service teams such as the
Solar House Design Team
,
Steel Bridge Design Team
, and
Engineers Without Borders
.
Apply now
Want to Know More?
Get info on our program, scholarships, how to visit campus, admissions and more. Take the next step in solving for tomorrow!
Request info
Degree Information
Catalog information
Our bachelor of science degree in architectural engineering consists of 129 credit hours. As an incoming student, you'll work toward completing common first-year courses while acquiring information to help you determine a major and career. During the first two or three semesters on campus, you will take a set of courses that are required by all engineering departments. After successfully completing the common first-year academic requirements, you'll formally apply for admission to the civil, architectural and environmental engineering department. Admission is nearly automatic if you've completed these requirements.
For more information, check out the university catalog:
Architectural engineering
Freshman engineering
As an engineering freshman, you'll work toward completing common freshman year courses while acquiring information to help you determine a major and career. During the first two or three semesters on campus, you will take a set of courses that are required by all engineering departments. After successfully completing the freshman engineering requirements, you'll formally apply for admission to the CArEE department.
Learn more about the program:
Freshman engineering program
Experiential learning
As part of our goal to advance the professional preparedness of our students, the civil, architectural and environmental engineering department has developed an Experiential Learning Program in coordination with our students’ professional internships. In our Vision 2020 Strategic Plan, enhancing experiential learning opportunities was listed as one of our top priorities. In this program, students on professional or academic internships or fellow programs are required to meet a set of learning objectives to gain the most from their internship.
Experiential learning form
Dual degree in civil and architectural engineering
You can obtain a bachelor of science degree in both civil and architectural engineering.
The number of additional credit hours needed for concurrent degree majors is as little as 19 additional credit hours. Once successfully completed a student will receive two degrees — a bachelor of science in civil engineering and a bachelor of science in architectural engineering.
The benefit of pursuing this path provides students more opportunities in their career pursuits with some overlap. The overlap is mostly in the structures, construction and geotechnical field. Disciplines that are more specific to the civil engineering degree include infrastructure (dams, bridges, water treatment, transportation systems). For architectural engineering degree majors the disciplines include building related systems (mechanical, electrical, lighting and acoustics).
Architectural engineering courses
Civil engineering courses
Foundational Engineering
As an incoming student, you'll work toward completing common first-year courses while acquiring information to help you determine a major and career. During the first two or three semesters on campus, you will take a set of courses that are required by all engineering departments. After successfully completing the common
first-year academic requirements
, you'll formally apply for admission to the environmental engineering program within the department of civil, architectural, and environmental engineering. Admission is nearly automatic if you've completed these requirements.
Learn more about the program:
Foundational engineering
Undergraduate Emphasis Areas
Structural Engineering
Structural engineering focuses on designing building components to withstand the stresses and pressure of their environmental conditions and remain safe and secure throughout their use.
View in catalog
Construction Engineering
Construction engineering deals with the design, planning, construction and management of airports, hospitals, buildings (residential, commercial, institutional and industrial) and other facilities.
View in catalog
Environmental Building Systems Engineering
Environmental building systems engineering focuses on designing, planning and building various mechanical, electrical and plumbing systems for residential, commercial, institutional, industrial and other facilities.
View in catalog
Materials Engineering
Material engineers investigate how materials perform in extreme conditions.By understanding the structure of matter, they invent new ways to combine elements into materials with unprecedented functional properties.
View in catalog
What Students Say About S&T
“I love studying architectural engineering at Missouri S&T because the program allows students to learn about engineering solutions for the needs of the public through classroom and laboratory instruction that incorporates research, analysis and design.”
— Melorin Azimzadeh
"Pursuing architectural engineering at Missouri S&T has opened the door to leadership opportunities on the Solar House Design Team, as well as prepared me to excel at any task given to me during an internship. Although the program is smaller and newer compared to others on campus, it gives you an opportunity to make lasting connections with your professors and those studying alongside you."
— Alyssa Marshall
Your Career in Architectural Engineering
Architectural engineers take courses in structural, electrical and mechanical engineering in areas of acoustics, lighting, environmental controls and construction practices that are directed toward providing reliable and economical structures such as retail complexes, office buildings, stadiums and airports. Courses in construction engineering include studies in construction techniques, cost estimating, project management, quality control/quality assurance and contract administration.
Architectural engineering is a broad field. Although you may specialize within a given area, you will be interacting with various specialists such as architects and engineers in other disciplines in the planning, design, and construction of novel buildings that will be the smart cities and resilient infrastructure of the future.
Architectural engineers also must be effective public communicators. You may be expected to work with property owners, landscape architects, concerned citizens, urban planners, contractors, city officials, attorneys, and even doctors and public health agencies for concerns related to public health measures.
Here are some organizations that hire architectural engineers:
Private construction companies
Consulting firms
Government agencies (building inspectors)
Colleges and universities
Peace Corps
Cities and municipal governments.
Starting Salary
The average salary for S&T students in the last year was $63,892.
Career Fields
Building systems
Structural engineering
Renewable energy in building systems
Indoor air quality, health and safety
Sustainable building systems
Building materials and properties
Construction
See the Undergraduate Student Experience
Virtual Tour
Information for Future Students
Academic Programs
Explore Other Programs
Financial Aid
Campus Living
Costs and Fees
Visit S&T
Admissions
Follow Civil, Architectural and Environmental Engineering
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
Instagram