Source: https://math.mst.edu/academic-programs/undergraduateprograms/appliedmath/

Undergraduate degree
Bachelor of Science in Applied Mathematics
–
Designed to develop your analytic and problem-solving skills. Required and elective science and engineering courses will show you the role of mathematics and statistics in a variety of fields.
Actuarial Science emphasis
Algebra/Discrete Mathematics emphasis
Applied Analysis emphasis
Computational Mathematics emphasis
Secondary Education emphasis
Statistics emphasis
As an applied mathematics major, you are not required to have an emphasis area. But, if you apply for and complete the requirements of an emphasis area, you will have this accomplishment noted on your diploma.
Experiential Learning
Grad Track Pathway: Exceptional Undergraduates – Earn Credit toward a Master’s Degree
The Grad Track Pathway in mathematics and statistics offers provisional admission to the Applied Mathematics M.S. degree program to exceptional undergraduate Applied Mathematics majors. In this program, undergraduate students earn coursework credit toward the Applied Mathematics M.S. degree while completing the Applied Mathematics B.S. degree. Nine credit hours of courses in the pathway may be transferred from their Missouri S&T B.S. degree to the Applied Mathematics M.S. degree. The pathway consists of all Math/Stat 5000 and 6000 level lecture courses so that students in this program will have flexibility to design the program for the Applied Mathematics B.S. and M.S. degrees to match individual interests and career objectives. In this program, a student first earns the bachelor’s degree and then the master’s degree. In addition, the student must apply for admission to the master’s program; however, admission is automatic if all undergraduate degree requirements and Grad Track Pathway requirements are satisfied.
To be admitted to the program, the student must (1) apply at least 30 days before graduating with a bachelor’s degree, (2) have a 3.0 minimum cumulative GPA, and (3) have a 3.5 minimum GPA in all completed Math/Stat lecture courses taken at Missouri S&T (and there must be at least one at the 3000 level).
For more information about the program, please see the
GTP Admissions and Standards
.
To apply, complete the
GTP Admission and Course Approval
and talk to your undergraduate advisor.
Please note that grad track pathway students are typically not supported by graduate assistantships.
If you have questions, please contact
Dr. Akim Adekpedjou
, the director of graduate studies.