Source: https://math.mst.edu/academic-programs/graduateprogram/

The mathematics and statistics department provides an enriching academic environment through a wide variety of course offerings, weekly seminars in several subject areas, and a colloquium series. Degree options are designed to achieve balance between depth of knowledge acquired through specialization and breadth of knowledge gained through exploration.
Graduate degree options
Master's Program
We offer M.S. degrees that allow for an emphasis in mathematics or statistics, with or without a thesis.
Explore
Doctor of Philosophy
Our doctoral degree program provides three distinct emphasis areas: mathematics, computational and applied mathematics, and statistics.
Explore
Grad Track Pathway
The Grad Track Pathway is a great way for undergraduate students to earn coursework credit toward the Applied Mathematics M.S. degree while completing the Applied Mathematics B.S. degree.
Explore
Research
Learn more about our faculty's research interests.
Explore
Graduate Certificates
We offer graduate certificates in actuarial science, statistics, financial mathematics, and statistical methods in psychology. Certificates are designed for practicing professionals as well as current students. Requirements can be met by completing four graduate-level courses from specified lists.
Explore
Ready to apply?
Do we have you convinced that obtaining a graduate degree in mathematics will propel you in your career?
Apply now!
Our Faculty and Research
The department has 16 tenured or tenure-track faculty members, all actively involved in research and teaching. These and one teaching professor, two associate teaching professors, and one assistant teaching professor complete the full-time
academic faculty
. Our faculty have won state, university system and campus awards for teaching, research, and service. These include a
Missouri Governor’s Award
for excellence in education, a Curators’ professorship, a Curators’ teaching professorship, numerous faculty excellence awards and outstanding teaching awards.
Research interests of the faculty
cover a wide spectrum with major concentrations in analysis, computational mathematics, differential equations, and statistics. Faculty members engage in interdisciplinary work with researchers in departments such as biology, computer science, geology, and engineering. For more information, see the above link and information provided on individual
faculty webpages
.
The application process
Application for admission and Application deadlines
: You must
submit an application online
.
Admission criteria
: Typical qualifications of previous successful applications to our master’s and PhD programs are given below.  You do not necessarily need to meet or exceed every typical qualification below; we consider all aspects of your application before making an admission decision.
We consider graduate applicants with undergraduate degrees in different fields besides mathematics or statistics.  We like to see evidence of a strong background in mathematics and/or statistics in such applications.
English language requirement
for international students
Students from certain countries are exempt
Non-thesis master’s applicants – typical qualifications
GRE: 155 quantitative, 3 analytical writing
Unofficial scores may be uploaded with your application; if admitted, official scores are required before you begin at Missouri S&T
GPA: 3.25 average in the last two years of undergraduate study
PhD and thesis master’s applicants – typical qualifications
GRE: 158 quantitative, 3 analytical writing
Unofficial scores may be uploaded with your application; if admitted, official scores are required before you begin at Missouri S&T
GPA: 3.5 average in the last two years of undergraduate study
Three recommendation letters
Statement of purpose: 1,000 words or less on why you are interested in the program
Admission decisions
: Decisions on admission are made on an ongoing basis; see below for decisions on graduate assistantships.
Note
: For application to the master’s program through the Graduate Track Pathway, please see the information provided
here
.
Financial assistance
Most of our graduate students receive financial aid in the form of a graduate teaching assistantship. The stipend for a half-time appointment is expected to be approximately $18,545 for the nine-month academic year. Additional summer stipends are also available on a competitive basis. The university provides full tuition and supplemental fee remission for all PhD and thesis MS students on a regular (50% FTE) graduate teaching assistantship; non-thesis MS students may also be eligible for tuition and fee remission, but this is not guaranteed. Outstanding domestic and international students who intend to pursue a Ph.D. will be considered for the
Kummer Innovation and Entrepreneurship Doctoral Fellows Program
, which includes a 12-month stipend and tuition remission for required course work for up to four years. More information can be found
here
.
Graduate assistantship availability
: We have a limited number of open graduate assistant positions each year. Most of the open positions are for students starting in the fall semester, although we sometimes have open positions for students starting in the spring semester.
Application process and eligibility
: All graduate applicants with a complete application (including three letters of recommendation and a statement of purpose) are eligible and are automatically considered for a graduate assistantship.
Admission decisions
: The first round of graduate assistantship offers for students starting in the fall semester are typically made in February. Offers may be made later depending on availability of graduate assistantship positions. Some graduate assistantship offers may be made for students starting in the spring semester depending on availability of graduate assistantship positions.
Application deadlines
:
Since the first round of offers for the fall is made in February, your complete application must be submitted by February 1 for full consideration.
Typical qualifications
: Since graduate applications vary year to year, it is not possible to provide a list of typical qualifications that will give an applicant a high chance of being offered a graduate assistantship position.  However, graduate assistantship offers are often made to applicants with qualifications that exceed the typical admission qualifications listed above.  Furthermore, international students must demonstrate proficient English communication skills.
Degree and certificate requirements
Master of Science in Applied Mathematics
Mathematics emphasis
Statistics emphasis
Master of Science for Teachers
– Primarily designed for high school physical sciences and mathematics teachers.
Ph.D. in Mathematics
Computational and applied mathematics emphasis
Mathematics emphasis
Statistics Emphasis
Supplemental Ph.D program information
Qualifying exam
Comprehensive exam
Thesis defense
Catalog information
Graduate Certificate Programs
We offer a graduate certificate in Actuarial Science, Financial Mathematics, Statistical Methods in Psychology, and Statistics. For more information, please refer to
this website
.
Do you have questions?
If you have questions about the grad program or would like to visit with the department and meet our students and faculty, please contact Dr. Akim Adekpedjou, director of graduate studies for the mathematics and statistics department, at
akima@mst.edu
or 573-341-4649.