Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-degrees/computer-engineering/

Real Degrees for Working Professionals
Master of Science in Computer Engineering
Strengthen your leadership skills and technical proficiency with an advanced degree in computer engineering.
Thesis and non-thesis options available. Both options require 30 credit hours of coursework to complete. This program is multidisciplinary.  Specialization areas of study include:
Digital Systems Design
— topics include computer architecture, digital circuits, high performance systems, parallel processors, testing and VLSI design.
Electrical Engineering
— can be an emphasis area in computer engineering or a separate degree. See the section on
electrical engineering
for emphasis areas in electrical engineering.
Embedded Computer Systems
— topics include hardware/software co-design, microprocessor systems, real-time systems, and smart sensors.
Systems, Intelligence, and Software Engineering
— topics include computational intelligence, computer networks, dependability, fault tolerance, image processing, neural networks and system security/survivability.
Admission Requirements
Bachelor’s degree in related field from ABET accredited university (or equivalent international)
Undergraduate GPA ≥ 3.3 (for PhD BS
≥
3.5  or MS
≥
3.5)
GRE V+Q ≥ 305; GRE Q ≥ 155, and GRE WR
≥
3.5
International requirement: TOEFL ≥ 80, or IELTS
≥
6.5
Doctorate Degree in Computer Engineering
Please contact the academic department for details on the distance doctorate program. Email
ece@mst.edu
or call 573-341-4519.
Graduate Certificates
Your Pathway to a Graduate Degree
Start earning college credit toward a graduate degree. The GRE is not required to enter a certificate program, and credit earned may be applied toward your master’s degree.*
Computer Engineering Graduate Certificate Programs
Computational Intelligence
Cyber Physical Systems
(Network Centric Systems)
*restrictions may apply
Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply. Check with the academic department for program specific details and requirements.
Learn more about the certificate to master's program
.
Accreditation
Missouri University of Science & Technology is accredited by the
Higher Learning Commission
, one of six regional institutional accreditors in the United States.
Nondegree-seeking enrollment
Prior to acceptance into the program, you may enroll in up to 6 credit hours as a nondegree-seeking (in some cases, post-baccalaureate) student. Enrollment does not guarantee acceptance. Learn more about
nondegree-seeking university student admissions
.
Licensure and disclosures
If you live outside of Missouri and are thinking about enrolling in a program that leads to professional licensure, the University of Missouri System strongly recommends that you check with the relevant licensing board in your state or the state where you plan to work. This will help you obtain the most current information about state licensure requirements before you enroll in any academic program. While Missouri University of Science & Technology strives to provide current licensure information, it's important to note that licensure regulations are subject to change.
For more details, please visit our
licensure and disclosure page
.
State authorization
States require that Missouri University of Science and Technology be authorized to deliver university-level distance/online education to their residents.
The process for authorization varies by state
.
For more details, please visit our
state authorization page
.
Authorized
Students residing in all states are eligible to enroll in this program.
Internships
Internships are encouraged for explore real-life applications of teacher leadership. Find more about available opportunities on
S&T's Career Opportunities
page.
Faculty
Our academic leaders are experts in their respective disciplines and bring extensive experience in higher education, industry, and departmental management. Learn more about the
Electrical and Computer Engineering Faculty
at S&T.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby
Associate Director for Online Admissions
573-341-6903  |
stgrad@mst.edu
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Sahra Sedigh Sarvestani, PhD
Associate Professor and Distance Coordinator
573-341-7505  |
sedighs@mst.edu
Department Website:
ece.mst.edu