Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/project-management/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Project Management
Engineering Management and Systems Engineering
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
This certificate programs aims to equip students with a set of tools that will allow them to achieve Project Management Institute (PMI) standards in the project management area, to successfully manage projects and human resources, and to analyze, evaluate, and improve systems. Specifically it will give students the ability to:
Identify operations problems and implement solutions for improved strategic competitiveness
Make sound decisions, plan, and control the key resources of an organization – money and people
Critically analyze, evaluate, improve, or adapt existing technical and/or managerial systems
Organize and manage complex projects
Admission requirements
The project management graduate certificate program is designed to appeal to working professionals. Certificate courses taken for graduate credit can be counted in the M.S. degree once accepted into the M.S. degree. If the four-course sequence is completed with a grade of "B" or better in each of the courses taken, they can apply to the M.S. program in engineering management. The certificate program may be followed by six additional 3 credit courses to complete the M.S. degree. The certificate program is open to all persons holding a B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. degree in engineering or a physical science and who have a minimum of 12-months of professional employment experience or are currently accepted into a graduate degree program at Missouri S&T.
B.S. in engineering or a physical science
Undergraduate courses: Calculus Series (I,II,III), Differential Equations, Statistics, Physics or Chemistry, Engineering Economy
GPA: Regular status: 2.75 cumulative
TOEFL: All international applicants must submit a current TOEFL score, regardless of prior academic experience or place of study. Regular status: 580/237/92
If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact the department.
Distance application requirements
Students applying for a graduate certificate must submit the following:
Completed Application
Statement of Purpose
Transcripts
Online Application
When you start a new application, select "Graduate Online/Distance" and then select the certificate program.
Don't forget to list your current employer and company location on the application.
Statement of purpose should be 2-3 paragraphs explaining why you are applying for this program.
Statement is to be submitted electronically on the
online application
; you'll copy and paste it into the provided text box.
Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for an admit decision.
Upload your transcripts on the
online application
under your "Institutional Data." If you previously attended S&T, you must upload your transcript. An unofficial transcript can be requested through Joe’SS.
How to Request Unofficial Transcripts
(pdf)
PDF scans are preferred.
The university requires official transcripts from all schools attended before a student may register for a second semester.
In order for a transcript to be counted as official it must be sent directly from the school to S&T, it cannot come from a student.
Official transcripts should be mailed to Global Learning:
Missouri University of Science and Technology
Office of Global Learning
G8 Norwood Hall, 320 West 12th Street
Rolla, MO 65409
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
Related Degrees
This graduate certificate may act as a pathway to the following master’s programs:
Engineering Management
(MS)
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby
Associate Director for Online Admissions
573-341-6903  |
stgrad@mst.edu
Engineering Management and Systems Engineering
573-341-4572  |
emgt@mst.edu
Toll Free: 1-800-441-5218
Department Website:
emse.mst.edu