Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/statistics/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Statistics
Mathematics and Statistics
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
Data is constantly being collected and is used in a variety of mediums by companies or organizations to make decisions, sell products or services or gain new insights. Gathering data, performing analysis and then interpreting it is a skill set you’ll conquer with a graduate certificate in statistics. The Department of Mathematics and Statistics offers a variety of theoretical and applied statistics courses applicable to your current role that can help set you apart from others in your field.
The certificate consist of one required course:
STAT 5643 Probability and Statistic. This course
provides the fundamentals on probability concepts and distributional theory, which are necessary for gaining a proper understanding of the applied statistical methods and techniques widely used in the analysis of experimental and observational data. This required course should be supplemented by three applied statistics courses selected from the pool of courses listed in the curriculum.
Admission requirements
This graduate certificate program is open to all individuals holding a bachelor's degree in mathematics, statistics, engineering or a hard scientific discipline with an undergraduate GPA
≥ 3.0 in the degree coursework.
In addition, you must have a minimum of two years of professional work experience, or currently be accepted into a graduate degree program at Missouri S&T.
The certificate program consists of four courses. In order to receive a graduate certificate, you must earn a cumulative GPA ≥ 3.0 in the four certificate courses taken.
Students admitted to the certificate program will have non-degree graduate status, but will earn graduate credit for the courses they complete.
Once admitted to the certificate program, you will have three years to complete the certificate, as long as you maintain a B average in the courses taken.
Distance application requirements
Students applying for a graduate certificate must submit the following:
Completed Application
Statement of Purpose
Transcripts
Online Application
When you start a new application, select "Graduate Online/Distance" and then select the certificate program.
Don't forget to list your current employer and company location on the application.
Statement of purpose should be 2-3 paragraphs explaining why you are applying for this program.
Statement is to be submitted electronically on the
online application
; you'll copy and paste it into the provided text box.
Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for an admit decision.
Upload your transcripts on the
online application
under your "Institutional Data." If you previously attended S&T, you must upload your transcript. An unofficial transcript can be requested through Joe’SS.
How to Request Unofficial Transcripts
(pdf)
PDF scans are preferred.
The university requires official transcripts from all schools attended before a student may register for a second semester.
In order for a transcript to be counted as official it must be sent directly from the school to S&T, it cannot come from a student.
Official transcripts should be mailed to Global Learning:
Missouri University of Science and Technology
Office of Global Learning
G8 Norwood Hall, 320 West 12th Street
Rolla, MO 65409
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Program structure
This program is 100% online: no campus visits required.
Courses are semester-based. Students typically take one or two classes per semester and finish the program in one year.
Delivery
100% online
Calendar system
Semester-based
Typical program length
1–2 years
Typical course load
1–2 courses a semester
Courses are offered asynchronously, meaning they do not have regular meetings. They may consist of various media and content — such as online discussions, videos, quizzes and recordings — that students review and complete at the time of their choice.
Required Courses – 12 credit hours
The flowing are the courses offered in the program. Courses are 3 credit hours each, unless stated otherwise. The University reserves the right to change or cancel courses as needed. See here for the full list of
course descriptions
.
STAT 5643 Probability and Statistics
STAT 5346 Regression Analysis
Two other STAT courses at the 4000-level or above
Accreditation
Missouri University of Science & Technology is accredited by the
Higher Learning Commission
, one of six regional institutional accreditors in the United States.
Nondegree-seeking enrollment
Prior to acceptance into the program, you may enroll in up to 6 credit hours as a nondegree-seeking (in some cases, post-baccalaureate) student. Enrollment does not guarantee acceptance. Learn more about
nondegree-seeking university student admissions
.
State authorization
States require that Missouri University of Science and Technology be authorized to deliver university-level distance/online education to their residents. Each state handles this process differently.
Please see our
state authorization page
for more information.
Authorized
Students residing in all states are eligible to enroll in this program.
Internships
Internships are available and encouraged to explore real-life applications of teacher leadership. Learn more about offerings on
S&T's Career Opportunities page
.
Faculty
Our academic leaders are experts in their disciplines who bring extensive experience in higher education, industry, and departmental management. Learn more about
S&T's Mathematics and Statistics Faculty
.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby
Associate Director for Online Admissions
Phone: 573-341-6903
Email:
stgrad@mst.edu
Mathematics and Statistics
Akim Adekpedjou, PhD
Professor and Director of Graduate Studies, Mathematics and Statistics
Phone: 573-341-4649
Fax: 573-341-4741
Email:
akima@mst.edu