Source: https://cs.mst.edu/undergraduate-degree/

Earn your Bachelor's of Science in Computer Science
As an undergraduate student, you will take traditional computer science courses in programming, languages, algorithms, data structures, databases, object-oriented design, architecture, and operating systems.
The undergraduate program prepares you to be a problem-solver and innovator that will be able to analyze a problem and propose a computing solution.  You will learn not only the technical skills, but also develop abilities to communicate, work with teams of people, and make informed judgments about your computing solutions with respect to societal, legal, and ethical principles.
Apply Today
Start your education at Missouri S&T and earn a degree that employers value.
Learn how to apply
GTP
Grad Track Program
The GTP in Computer science was designed to help our CS undergraduates accelerate through a masters degree, which improves your prospects at a rewarding job in any field, including: industry, national labs, or academia.
Learn more
Your Career in Computer Science
$80,236
Average starting salary
for undergraduate students as of 2023
From the operating software we use on a daily basis to the security of our critical infrastructures, computer scientists develop ways to solve problems, process information, and secure our future. Computer programmers harness the technology of our world, making computers continually innovative and limitlessly functional in a wide variety of engineered, medical, and social contexts.
Computer Science is the development of algorithms to solve real-world problems in a mechanized way. Computer scientists write programs to control computer systems, engineered systems, and work on applications that use computers. They work in cyber security, networking, distributed systems, databases, and artificial intelligence.
S&T Computer Science graduates work for technological companies, law enforcement, national defense institutions, the financial industry, and computer manufacturing.
Learn more about statistics and job opportunities.
career.mst.edu
Degree Details
Freshman engineering
As a computer science freshman, you'll work toward completing common freshman year courses while acquiring information to help you determine a major and career. During the first two or three semesters on campus, you will take a set of courses that are required by all engineering departments. After successfully completing the freshman engineering requirements, you'll formally apply for admission to the computer science department. Admission is nearly automatic if you have completed these requirements.
Learn more about the program:
Freshman Engineering Program
Co-op and Internship Programs
Our Cooperative Education Program gives you an opportunity to gain practical degree-related work experience prior to graduation. The program is set up so you can take a break from studies and work full-time for one or for a combination of semesters, such as spring/summer or summer/fall, allowing eight to nine months of work experience.
Read more
Experiential Learning
Every undergraduate in Computer Science must complete the Experiential Learning graduation requirement. The intent of this requirement is to encourage our students to pursue Computer Science opportunities outside of the classroom. This requirement can be completed at any time during the undergraduate program of study, so it is suggested that the paperwork be filled out as soon as the experience has ended. There are two parts, the Reflection and the Assessment. The assessment is written by the student and submitted to the department (please read the below reflection format for guidance). It will be reviewed and possibly require revisions. You must also have your Experiential Learning Supervisor complete the Assessment.
Learn More
Dual degree in computer engineering and computer science
You can get a bachelor of science degree in both computer science and computer engineering in about one extra semester.
CpE-CS Dual Degree bubble chart
Example course plan for dual degree CpE-CS
Minors
Missouri S&T offers two Minors related to Computer Science:
a traditional Computer Science minor which is open to students in outside departments, and
a multi-disciplinary Bioinformatics minor which is also available for Computer Science majors.
Computer science minor
If you are earning another non-CS undergraduate degree at S&T, then you can obtain a minor in computer science, by taking at least 20 credit hours, as described in the course catalog.
Learn More
Bioinformatics minor
Bioinformatics is a rapidly-developing field, that applies computational methods to address biological questions, and includes new advances in computer science, mathematics, genome sequencing, machine learning, and biology. Computer Science students can pursue the multidisciplinary bioinformatics minor, by extending their studies with additional biology and mathematics, courses as described in the course catalog.
Learn More
Admissions
To apply for admission to Missouri S&T, choose the selection below that best describes your application status.
First-time freshman
Transfer
Dual-enrollment
International
Military
Learn more about
admissions here
.
573-341-4165
Email
Apply to S&T
Request program info
View estimated costs
Can't find what you're looking for?
Check out some undergraduate student resources
here.
Follow Computer Science
Facebook
Twitter
Linked In
Youtube