Source: https://ece.mst.edu/academic-programs/electrical-engineering/graduate-degrees-certificates/

Graduate Degrees and Certificates in Electrical Engineering
The electrical engineering program offers graduate programs of study which lead to the M.S. degree (thesis and non-thesis options), the Ph.D. degree and the doctorate of engineering (D.Eng) degree. All degrees may be obtained both on-campus and through distance options. Selection of specific options and programs of study is determined by the student, but are subject to approval by advisor and department.
Graduate Student Handbook and Course Information
University Catalog for Graduate Degrees in Electrical Engineering
Why S&T
Read testimonials from our outstanding graduate alumni and learn about how choosing S&T impacted their lives.
Graduate Alumni Testimonials
"Looking back, I feel pursuing both M.S. Ph.D. degrees in Electrical Engineering was worth the time invested to gain the necessary skill sets which are required in the industry today."  -Shubhankar Marathe (Amazon)
Read other testimonials
Graduate Alumni Testimonials
"Outstanding faculty, state-of-the-art research, well equipped laboratories, and a variety of industry-demanding course offerings are the key elements that categorize the Missouri S&T ECE Department as one of the best-in-class schools in the region." -Ashkan Hashemi (Intel)
Read other testimonials
Graduate Degree Programs (Master and Doctoral)
M.S. degree (thesis and non-thesis options) and the doctoral degree (Ph.D. and D.Eng.) which includes some specialization in one or more of the following six emphasis areas of electrical engineering:
Circuits and Electronics
Circuits and electronics topics include network analysis and synthesis, computer-aided circuit design, distributed circuits, communication circuits, and linear and nonlinear electronic circuits.
Communications and Signal Processing
Communications and signal processing topics include coding, information theory, modulation, detection, filtering for both analog and digital systems, signal processing, image processing and wireless.
Controls and Systems
Controls and systems topics include resilience control, wireless sensor/network design and networked control systems, process control, optimal control and estimation, robust control, neural networks, fuzzy logic-based control as applied to control of vehicles, chemical process, manufacturing, robotics, environmental systems and smart structural systems.
Devices and Optics
Devices and optics topics include the semiconductor devices, micro systems, fiber optics and sensors, optical methods applied to structural monitoring, and optical/quantum computing.
Electromagnetics
Electromagnetics topics include electromagnetic compatibility and signal integrity for high-speed electronic systems, microwaves and applications to nondestructive testing and evaluation.
Power
Power topics include power electronic converters, electric machines, electric motor drives, high voltage engineering, transportation electrification, application of computer methods to power system analysis and control, power system relaying and protection, and power quality load management.
Graduate Certificate Programs
Graduate certificates give students the opportunity to broaden their knowledge in a particular discipline, learn the latest in developing fields and stay competitive in the marketplace. By taking a few courses, students will be able to demonstrate advanced knowledge in a field. Graduate certificate programs may also be used as a pathway to a graduate degree program, and
credit earned in the certificate can be counted toward the master’s degree
. A student needs to earn a 'B' or better in each certificate course to continue on with the master’s degree without needing to submit GRE/GMAT scores.
University Catalog for Graduate Certificates
Advanced Control Systems
This graduate certificate program is designed to provide specialized graduate level education in the area of advanced control systems.
Automation Engineering and PLCs
This graduate certificate program is designed to provide specialized graduate level education in the area of automation engineering and PLC.
Electric Machines and Drives
This graduate certificate program is designed to provide specialized graduate level education in the area of electrical machine and drives.
Electrical Power Systems Engineering
This graduate certificate program is designed to provide specialized graduate level education in the area of electrical power systems engineering.
Distance Graduate Programs
You could be earning college credit toward your master's degree and advancing your career. At Missouri S&T, we offer nationally ranked online graduate programs.
Distance Master Degree
A distance Master program is available. Learn more at:
Distance - Master of Science of Electrical Engineering
Distance Certificates
There are four distance certificate programs are available. Learn more at:
Advanced Control Systems
Automation Engineering and PLC
Electric Machines and Drives
Electric Power Systems Engineering
Distance Course Schedules
Distance Course Schedules
Degree (Master and Doctoral) Admission Requirements
Electrical and Computer Engineering's minimum admission requirements may exceed general university requirements. In case of discrepancies, departmental requirements supersede all others.
Recommended B.S. GPA of 3.3/4.0 for M.S. and B.S. GPA of 3.5/4.0 for Ph.D.
Recommended GRE score of Q=155, Q+V=305, and AW=3.5 (waived for Missouri S&T GPA 3.5 of ECE courses; must be > 18 hours)
For PhDs and thesis option Masters, it is strongly recommended to secure research advisor (see "Securing Research Advisor" below).
For university-wide general information:
https://futurestudents.mst.edu/admissions/graduate/
Certificate Admission Requirements
B.S. degree in any field of engineering
B.S. GPA of 3.0/4.0 (a minimum 'B' grade is required) in the CT courses
Securing an Advisor
All doctoral and thesis option master students are expected to conduct research with their research advisors. Here are some tips how to secure research advisor.
Doctoral Degree
The most important thing for PhD admission is to secure your tentative advisor by individual contact as stated below, even before you formally apply. View the department's
faculty directory
to review each faculty member's research areas and identify your potential PhD advisor. Contact the faculty member(s) by email with your portfolio (CV, transcript, publication, etc.) for seeking confirmation to serve as your PhD advisor.
Once you have a confirmation, ask for a Recommendation Letter from your potential advisor and specify the advisor in your Statement of Purpose to be part of your application package. Please note that the confirmation to serve as your advisor does not mean you’ll be automatically offered a financial assistantship. You need to ask the advisor about the availability of assistantship (see the link to “Graduate Assistantship” below).
You may apply formally for PhD without this procedure of securing the advisor. We will circulate your application materials to faculty members to see if someone is interested in serving as your advisor. If you are applying for the PhD program without a MS degree (directly from BS) and without securing an advisor, we may still admit you as an MS to be able to convert to PhD within 2-3 semesters (all your credits are then counted toward PhD). During this period, you interact with faculty and demonstrate your aptitude for PhD.
Master's Degree (thesis option only)
There are two options in the Master program: thesis option and non-thesis option. The non-thesis option requires coursework only, while the thesis option requires a thesis with your research advisor with less course work.
Both options are equally considered for admission without preference or priority. For the thesis option, procedure of how to secure an advisor and seek his or her confirmation is the same as that of PhD (see "Doctoral degree" above). Master students may change the degree option at any time during the study.
Graduate Assistantship
We value our graduate students. In our commitment to your education, we've put together several funding opportunities to help make your degree an excellent return on investment. Electrical and Computer Engineering programs offer the following opportunities:
Graduate Assistantship
There are two major mechanisms of assistantship for graduate students in ECE: Graduate Research Assistants (GRA), Graduate Teaching Assistants (GRA) and Fellowship. There are also Grader positions based on hourly rate wages. Students can be appointed as GRA or GTA by 25% or 50% FTE (Full-Time Equivalent), which is the maximum part-time employment rate for students (100% represents the full-time job). Monthly wage for 50% FTE is approximately $2,000, which is proportional to the % FTE (e.g. $1,000 for 25% FTE). Student’s out-of-tuition is waived if the student is offered at least a 25% FTE or higher.
Graduate Research Assistantship (GRA)
This assistantship is to support students by contributing to faculty members’ research. If a GRA is offered, the out-of-state tuition is waived (if higher than 25% FTE) and the monthly wage is provided according to % FTE. Students may contact individual faculty members with materials (CVs, publication, etc.) preferably before application to demonstrate their qualification and competency in the interested research areas. The faculty member may offer a GRA position with admission if the student is qualified and funding is available. Or it may be offered anytime with continued interactions with faculty members during study in the ECE program.
Graduate Teaching Assistantship (GTA)
GTAs are normally required to teach undergraduate-level laboratory courses. If a GTA is offered, the out-of-state tuition is waived (if higher than 25% FTE) and the monthly wage is provided according to % FTE. The department appoints GTAs every semester. Students apply for the GTA positions several months earlier before the start of class to teach, pass the communication test (non-native speakers only) and are selected by the department. Therefore, new incoming international students are not eligible for the Grader position during the first semester (US citizens or permanent residents are eligible).
Grader
This mechanism provides students with biweekly wages based on hourly rates (no tuition waived). Graders are normally required to grade assignments from undergraduate-level courses. Students may contact individual faculty members who teach the course to be appointed as Grader several months earlier before the start of class. Therefore, new incoming international students are not eligible for the Grader position during the first semester (US citizens or permanent residents are eligible).
Other Campus-Level Assistantship Opportunities
Other Campus-level assistantship opportunities are found at:
Domestic students:
https://futurestudents.mst.edu/admissions/graduate/
International students:
https://futurestudents.mst.edu/admissions/international/
Follow Electrical and Computer Engineering
Facebook
Linked In