Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/enterprise-resource-planning/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)
Business and Information Technology
|
Enterprise Resource Planning
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
Corporations worldwide have focused on improving business processes for the past two decades. In their efforts to use information technology more effectively in enabling business processes, we have seen the emergence and growth of enterprise systems, and more recently, extended enterprise systems such as supply chain management (SCM), customer relationship management (CRM), strategic enterprise management (SEM), and business intelligence. Most Fortune 500 companies have already adopted enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems and many midsize companies are also planning ERP implementations. With a commitment to keep pace with these changes in business processes and technology, the University of Missouri system joined SAP's™ University alliance and Microsoft's™ University Alliance programs in order to continue and expand classroom capabilities for integrating ERP software into the curriculum.
ERP systems can be used to reinforce many of the concepts covered in the business discipline. ERP systems incorporate state-of-the-art technology, providing a comprehensive teaching tool for business and for information systems. Universities that have successfully incorporated an ERP system into their curricula find unprecedented student demand for those subjects. There is also an increasing demand for ERP-related research.
ERP can be viewed as a combination of business management practice and technology, where information technology integrates with a company's core business processes to enable the achievement of specific business objectives. The Missouri S&T program prepares undergraduate and graduate students for positions as both technical and business consultants in the ERP field.
If you want to learn more about ERP visit us on our website at
http://erp.mst.edu
.
ERP courses can be found in the
graduate catalog
.
Required Core Courses:
ERP 5110 ERP Systems Design & Implementation
ERP 6120 ERP Systems Configuration and Integration
Admission requirements
The graduate certificate program is open to all individuals holding a bachelor's, master's or doctorate degree.
A student who completes the ERP graduate certificate at Missouri S&T, having earned a grade of "B" or better in each of the certificate courses, may be admitted to the MBA program in business administration or the MS program in information science and technology. The normal application process will be followed, but the minimum undergraduate GPA and GRE score requirements will be waived. Normal course prerequisites still apply.
Students admitted to the certificate program will have non-degree graduate status, but will earn graduate credit for the courses they complete. The courses in the program will be offered at least once per year.
Once admitted to the certificate program, you will have three years to complete the certificate, as long as you maintain a B average in the courses taken.
Distance application requirements
Students applying for a graduate certificate must submit the following:
Completed Application
Statement of Purpose
Transcripts
Online Application
When you start a new application, select "Graduate Online/Distance" and then select the certificate program.
Don't forget to list your current employer and company location on the application.
Statement of purpose should be 2-3 paragraphs explaining why you are applying for this program.
Statement is to be submitted electronically on the
online application
; you'll copy and paste it into the provided text box.
Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for an admit decision.
Upload your transcripts on the
online application
under your "Institutional Data." If you previously attended S&T, you must upload your transcript. An unofficial transcript can be requested through Joe’SS.
How to Request Unofficial Transcripts
(pdf)
PDF scans are preferred.
The university requires official transcripts from all schools attended before a student may register for a second semester.
In order for a transcript to be counted as official it must be sent directly from the school to S&T, it cannot come from a student.
Official transcripts should be mailed to Global Learning:
Missouri University of Science and Technology
Office of Global Learning
G8 Norwood Hall, 320 West 12th Street
Rolla, MO 65409
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
Related Degrees
This graduate certificate may act as a pathway to the following master’s programs:
Business Administration
(MBA)
Information Science and Technology
(MS)
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby, Associate Director for Online Admissions
Phone: 573-341-6903
Email:
stgrad@mst.edu
Business and Information
Science and Technology
Business and Information Science and Technology
101 Fulton Hall
301 W. 14th St.
Rolla, MO 65409
Phone: 573-341-4776
Email:
bit@mst.edu
Web:
bit.mst.edu