Source: https://care.mst.edu/academic-programs/civil-engineering/undergraduate-degree/

Earn a Bachelor's Degree in Civil Engineering
Build a better world by applying today.
Civil engineers design and build some of the world’s biggest, most vital structures, from interstate highways and bridges, to dams and airports, to water-treatment plants and power stations. They typically work for engineering, construction, or architectural firms, environmental agencies, rail and ground transportation groups, and power plants. Our alumni are in great demand for the rapidly growing fields, and we believe in preparing our students through active and experiential learning in our laboratories and in our design and service teams such as the
Steel Bridge Design Team
,
Concrete Canoe Design Team
,
Engineers Without Borders
, and
Solar House Design Team
.
Apply now
Want to Know More?
Get info on our program, scholarships, how to visit campus, admissions and more. Take the next step in solving for tomorrow!
Request info
Degree Information
Catalog information
Our bachelor of science degree in civil engineering requires 128 credit hours. As an incoming student, you'll work toward completing common first-year courses while acquiring information to help you determine a major and career. During the first two or three semesters on campus, you will take a set of courses that are required by all engineering departments. After successfully completing the common first-year academic requirements, you'll formally apply for admission to the civil, architectural and environmental engineering department. Admission is nearly automatic if you've completed these requirements.
For more information, check out the university catalog:
Civil engineering
Freshman engineering
As an engineering freshman, you'll work toward completing common freshman year courses while acquiring information to help you determine a major and career. During the first two or three semesters on campus, you will take a set of courses that are required by all engineering departments. After successfully completing the freshman engineering requirements, you'll formally apply for admission to the CArEE department.
Learn more about the program:
Freshman engineering program
Experiential learning
As part of our goal to advance the professional preparedness of our students, the civil, architectural and environmental engineering department has developed an Experiential Learning Program in coordination with our students’ professional internships. In our Vision 2020 Strategic Plan, enhancing experiential learning opportunities was listed as one of our top priorities. In this program, students on professional or academic internships or fellow programs are required to meet a set of learning objectives to gain the most from their internship.
Experiential learning form
Dual degree in civil and architectural engineering
You can obtain a bachelor of science degree in both civil and architectural engineering.
The number of additional credit hours needed for concurrent degree majors is as little as 19 additional credit hours. Once successfully completed a student will receive two degrees — a bachelor of science in civil engineering and a bachelor of science in architectural engineering.
The benefit of pursuing this path provides students more opportunities in their career pursuits with some overlap. The overlap is mostly in the structures, construction and geotechnical field. Disciplines that are more specific to the civil engineering degree include infrastructure (dams, bridges, water treatment, transportation systems). For architectural engineering degree majors the disciplines include building related systems (mechanical, electrical, lighting and acoustics).
Civil engineering courses
Architectural engineering courses
Foundational Engineering
As an incoming student, you'll work toward completing common first-year courses while acquiring information to help you determine a major and career. During the first two or three semesters on campus, you will take a set of courses that are required by all engineering departments. After successfully completing the common
first-year academic requirements
, you'll formally apply for admission to the environmental engineering program within the department of civil, architectural, and environmental engineering. Admission is nearly automatic if you've completed these requirements.
Learn more about the program:
Foundational engineering
Cooperative Engineering Program
Want to earn Missouri’s most valuable engineering degree but can’t come to Rolla? S&T offers a civil engineering degree at Missouri State University. Our faculty, our degree, on the Springfield campus. Two great schools with one amazing opportunity for your tomorrow.
Explore program
Undergraduate Emphasis Areas
Construction Engineering
Construction engineering deals with the designing, planning, construction and management of infrastructures such as roads, tunnels, bridges, airports, railroads, facilities, buildings, dams, utilities and other projects.
View in catalog
Environmental Engineering
Environmental engineering takes from broad scientific topics like chemistry, biology, ecology, and others to create solutions that will protect and also improve the health of living organisms and improve the quality of the environment.
View in catalog
Geotechnical Engineering
Geotechnical engineering embraces the fields of soil mechanics and rock mechanics to determine and design the type of foundations, earthworks, and/or pavement subgrades required for the intended man-made structures to be built.
View in catalog
Materials Engineering
Materials engineers investigate how materials perform and why they sometimes fail. By understanding the structure of matter they invent new ways to combine chemical elements into materials with unprecedented functional properties.
View in catalog
Structural Engineering
Structural engineering focuses on the framework of structures, and on designing those structures to withstand the stresses and pressures of their environment and remain safe, stable and secure throughout their use.
View in catalog
Transport Engineering
Transportation engineering, primarily involves planning, design, construction, maintenance, and operation of transportation facilities. The facilities support air, highway, railroad, pipeline, water, and even space transportation.
View in catalog
Water Resources Engineering
Water resources engineering is a specialty of civil engineering that focuses on water supplies, irrigation and waste disposal. It also addresses methods for controlling water to avoid water-related damage and catastrophes.
View in catalog
What Students Say About S&T
“I chose the civil engineering field because of the direct impact I can have on my community and the wide variety of employment options. As a civil engineer, I’ll have the ability to design complex structures, optimize transportation routes, create water/wastewater systems, oversee construction operations, and much more—and Missouri S&T has prepared me for so many possibilities.”
— Brendan Schmidt
"I dual majored in civil and architectural engineering to Change the World. I was drawn by the challenging S&T architectural and civil programs that have given me great opportunities in issues like climate change, overpopulation, adequate housing and so much more. I’m excited to see what’s possible with my degree programs.”
— Brenan Pool
Your Career in Civil Engineering
Civil engineers take a broad spectrum of courses and engage in all parts of building our society. Learning and coursework ranges from fundamental construction materials to entire transportation networks to planning and building entire cities to protecting the public health from environmental disease. At its core, civil engineering is about building a better, more sustainable society.
Civil engineering is a broad field, and you can specialize within a given area most related to your interest and abilities. In almost any area, you will be interacting with specialists such as architects and engineers in other disciplines to conceptualize, plan, design and build our global infrastructure.
Civil engineers who chose a path in leadership must also be effective public communicators. You may be expected to work with property owners, concerned citizens, city officials, government agencies and even doctors for concerns related to public health measures.
Here is a sample of the industries that hire civil engineers:
Consulting firms
Industrial facilities
Government (transportation, environmental protection, etc.)
Private construction companies
Peace Corps
Cities and municipal governments
Starting Salary
The average salary for S&T students in the last year was $63,892.
Career Fields
Geotechnical engineer
Structural engineer
Water resource engineer
Transportation engineer
Construction engineer and management
Building materials and properties engineer
See the Undergraduate Student Experience
Virtual Tour
Information for Future Students
Explore Other Programs
Financial Aid
Campus Living
Costs and Fees
Visit S&T
Admissions
Follow Civil, Architectural and Environmental Engineering
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
Instagram