Source: https://psych.mst.edu/

The Department of Psychological Science at S&T provides students with a strong foundation in psychological science while offering unique opportunities for coursework and
research
at both the undergraduate and graduate level. Our
award winning
faculty represent the broad and diverse range of fields within psychology, which allows students flexibility to tailor their educational experience to fit their particular interests.
To learn more about the degrees and certificates we offer visit our
Academic Programs
page
.
To learn more about our faculty and department, check out some of the links below including a recent Tedx Talk from Dr. Devin Burns.
Research
Research in Psychology
Our faculty conduct research across a wide range of psychology disciplines, with ongoing research on important topics aimed at understanding individual and group behaviors.
Explore our research
News and Announcements
Department News
Missouri S&T recognized four women at the 2022 Women’s Hall of Fame Awards, and among the four recipients was Dr. Jessica Cundiff. Recipients of this prestigious award are recognized because of their success, influence, and ability to inspire and impact students, the Missouri S&T community and beyond. Congratulations Dr. Cundiff!
More news
Dr. Devin Burns talks about how we can do better when it comes thinking critically about everyday events.
Take learning outside the classroom
As a psychology major, you will have many opportunities to take learning outside of the traditional classroom through research and internships.
Explore research opportunities
Contact us
Psychological Science
136 Humanities and Social Sciences, 500 W. 14th St., Rolla, MO 65409
Phone:
(573) 341-4937
Email:
psych@mst.edu
Operating Hours
Monday:
8:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.
Tuesday:
8:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.
Wednesday:
8:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.
Thursday:
8:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.
Friday:
8:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.
Saturday:
Closed
Sunday:
Closed
Follow Psychological Science
Facebook
Linked In