Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-degrees/business_administration/

Real Degrees for Working Professionals
Master of Business Administration
Engineer a more fluid organization — one where technology drives progress, streamlines operations and helps achieve essential goals. Missouri University of Science and Technology (Missouri S&T) centers the online master of business administration (MBA) around this objective. The program, geared toward working professionals, views technology as a tool of growth that influences all business processes, improves decision-making and encourages innovation.
Strengthen your management skills and knowledge of functional business areas, and emerge as a determined leader ready to deliver results and successfully implement technology at all organizational levels. Ignite this stage of your professional journey by applying directly to the Missouri S&T online MBA program or explore a range of disciplines through 10 gateway certificate programs offered online by the Department of Business and Information Technology.
The
Department of Business and Information Technology
aims to launch you as a leader by enhancing your core business skills, refining your management foundation and helping you pioneer technology as a strategic decision-making and financial tool.
This Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB)-accredited program grapples with current technology implementation concerns while positioning candidates for more advanced roles:
Learn management and leadership best practices to support teams, drive results and make more impactful decisions
Discuss technology and international business trends with expert faculty and fellow business professionals
Collaborate with diverse students in an environment emphasizing team-based projects
Understand how to bridge all functional areas with technology to develop more complex business plans
Apply theories to real-world scenarios in live simulations
Improve your presentation, critical reasoning, problem-solving and strategic thinking skills
Connect with employers to expand your network and access new opportunities
Prepare to champion and thrive in a technology-centered business environment
Understand how to use technology and data to make more targeted decisions, reach goals and unlock organizational growth
ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS
Bachelor’s degree from accredited institution
Undergraduate GPA ≥ 3.0 in last two years of coursework
All applicants are required to complete either the GRE or the GMAT. Admission requirements based upon the GRE are a minimum combined verbal & quantitative score of 300 and analytical writing score of 3.0. Admissions requirements based upon the GMAT are a minimum score of 500.
International requirement: TOEFL ≥ 79 or IELTS
≥ 6.5
Graduate Certificates
Your Pathway to a Graduate Degree
Start earning college credit toward a graduate degree. The GRE is not required to enter a certificate program, and credit earned may be applied toward your master’s degree.*
Business Graduate Certificate Programs
Business Analytics and Data Science
Business Intelligence
Business Project Management
Digital Supply Chain Management
Enterprise Resource Planning
(ERP)
Entrepreneurship and Technological Innovation
Finance
Financial Technology
Management and Leadership
*restrictions may apply
Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply. Check with the academic department for program specific details and requirements.
Learn more about the certificate to master's program
.
Program structure
This program is 100% online: no campus visits required.
Courses are semester-based. Students typically take one or two classes per semester and finish the program in one year.
Delivery
100% online
Calendar system
Semester-based
Typical program length
1–2 years
Typical course load
1–2 courses a semester
Courses are offered asynchronously, meaning they do not have regular meetings. They may consist of various media and content — such as online discussions, videos, quizzes and recordings — that students review and complete at the time of their choice.
Required Course Work – 37 credit hours
The online master of business administration requires 36 credit hours, divided between a 21-credit-hour core and 15 credit hours of electives. Electives cover higher-level topics in business, enterprise resource planning, finance, information science and technology, and marketing. A related graduate certificate can partially fulfill these requirements. Consult your adviser to plan out your degree in line with your education and career goals
.
The following are the courses offered in the program. Courses are 3 credit hours each unless stated otherwise. The University reserves the right to change or cancel courses as needed. Refer to the
S&T Grad Catalog
to explore course descriptions.
REQUIRED CORE COURSE – 21 credit hours
BUS 6121 Teambuilding & Leadership (fall)
BUS 6622 International Marketing (fall)
BUS 6723 Artificial Intelligence, Robotics, and Information Systems Management (spring)
BUS 6224 Managerial Accounting & Control (spring)
BUS 6425 Supply Chain and Project Management (spring & summer)
BUS 6426 Integration of Business Areas (fall)
BUS 6827 Managerial Finance (fall)
ELECTIVE COURSES – 15 credit hours
Students wishing to pursue a broad spectrum MBA may select the 15 credit hours of electives in appropriate business and technology-related areas to suit their interests. Alternatively, they may focus on an area of expertise with a Graduate Certificate (requiring 12 of the 15 credit hours).
Courses below the 5000-level will not count toward the MBA degree. A maximum of 6 credit hours may be taken outside the Business and Information Technology department, except where taking one of the approved Graduate Certificates.
Accreditation
Missouri University of Science & Technology is accredited by the
Higher Learning Commission
, one of six regional institutional accreditors in the United States.
Nondegree-seeking enrollment
Prior to acceptance into the program, you may enroll in up to 6 credit hours as a nondegree-seeking (in some cases, post-baccalaureate) student. Enrollment does not guarantee acceptance. Learn more about
nondegree-seeking university student admissions
.
Licensure and disclosures
If you live outside of Missouri and are thinking about enrolling in a program that leads to professional licensure, the University of Missouri System strongly recommends that you check with the relevant licensing board in your state or the state where you plan to work. This will help you obtain the most current information about state licensure requirements before you enroll in any academic program. While Missouri University of Science & Technology strives to provide current licensure information, it's important to note that licensure regulations are subject to change.
For more details, please visit our
licensure and disclosure page
.
State authorization
States require that Missouri University of Science and Technology be authorized to deliver university-level distance/online education to their residents.
The process for authorization varies by state
.
For more details, please visit our
state authorization page
.
Authorized
Students residing in all states are eligible to enroll in this program.
Internships
Internships are encouraged for explore real-life applications of teacher leadership. Find more about available opportunities on
S&T's Career Opportunities
page.
Faculty
Our academic leaders are experts in their respective disciplines and bring extensive experience in higher education, industry, and departmental management. Learn more about the
Business and Information Science and Technology Faculty
at S&T.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby
Associate Director for Online Admissions
573-341-6903  |
stgrad@mst.edu
Business and Information Science and Technology
573-341-4776  |
bit@mst.edu
Department Website:
bit.mst.edu