Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/managementforsustainablebusiness/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Management for Sustainable Business
Economics
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
The Management for Sustainable Business certificate program is designed for executives and new working professionals to enhance their careers in management for sustainable business. The certificate will focus on building knowledge and competencies, specifically in the area of environmental sustainability of a business organization. The program will provide professionals with the skills necessary for rapidly advancing themselves in the workplace, and more importantly, rapidly advancing the general knowledge base and skill set in their industries and communities. The required courses and all the business electives are offered via distance education.
Admission requirements
Admission to a graduate certificate program requires proof of completion of an undergraduate  degree. Students may apply for the Management for Sustainable Graduate Certificate by completing a Graduate Application for Admission and indicating the Sustainable Business Graduate Certificate option. The certificate application must be completed within the first two weeks of the student’s first course in the sequence. Successful completion with a B or better in all four courses is required for the certificate. These courses may be completed in one semester or over a number of semesters to accommodate the student’s schedule. The GMAT is not required for the Sustainable Business Graduate Certificate. Students considering graduate studies beyond this certificate program are encouraged to contact the Graduate Studies Office regarding these requirements.
Distance application requirements
Students applying for a graduate certificate must submit the following:
Completed Application
Statement of Purpose
Transcripts
Online Application
When you start a new application, select "Graduate Online/Distance" and then select the certificate program.
Don't forget to list your current employer and company location on the application.
Statement of purpose should be 2-3 paragraphs explaining why you are applying for this program.
Statement is to be submitted electronically on the
online application
; you'll copy and paste it into the provided text box.
Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for an admit decision.
Upload your transcripts on the
online application
under your "Institutional Data." If you previously attended S&T, you must upload your transcript. An unofficial transcript can be requested through Joe’SS.
How to Request Unofficial Transcripts
(pdf)
PDF scans are preferred.
The university requires official transcripts from all schools attended before a student may register for a second semester.
In order for a transcript to be counted as official it must be sent directly from the school to S&T, it cannot come from a student.
Official transcripts should be mailed to Global Learning:
Missouri University of Science and Technology
Office of Global Learning
G8 Norwood Hall, 320 West 12th Street
Rolla, MO 65409
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
Related Degrees
This graduate certificate may act as a pathway to the following master’s programs:
Business Administration
(MBA)
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby, Associate Director for Online Admissions
Phone: 573-341-6903
Email:
stgrad@mst.edu
Economics
Dr. Michael Davis
Interim Chair and Associate Professor
Economics
101 Harris Hall
500 W 13th St
Rolla, MO 65409
Phone: 573-341-6959
Email:
davismc@mst.edu
Web:
econ.mst.edu