Source: https://chbe.mst.edu/academicprograms/mastersdegreeinchemicalengineering/

Earn a Master's Degree in Chemical Engineering
With a master’s degree or doctorate in chemical engineering, you could work in a high-tech industry, national laboratory or academic position anywhere in the world.
In this program, you have the opportunity to develop cutting-edge technologies for novel catalysts, innovative drug delivery methods and innovations in green energy.
Apply now
Want to Know More?
Get info on our program, scholarships, how to visit campus, admissions and more. Take the next step in solving for tomorrow!
Request info
Degree Information
Overview
The instruction in our program is a blend of theoretical knowledge and practical application. Our faculty, who are experts in their respective fields, provide students with a solid foundation in the principles of chemical engineering, while also offering opportunities for hands-on experience in state-of-the-art laboratories. This balance of theory and practice ensures that our students are well-versed in the field's academic aspects and have the practical skills necessary to excel in the industry.
View catalog
Thesis program requirements
The total number of hours required for a master’s in chemical engineering is 30. A minimum of 9 hours from the departmental graduate core course requirement, with (
CHEM ENG 5150)
being an optional course, plus 6-12 hours of additional coursework. A Master's thesis from research must also be prepared and defended, which shall include 6-12 credit hours of (
CHEM ENG 6099)
.
View courses
Non-thesis program requirements
The total number of hours required for a non-thesis master’s in chemical engineering is 30. Requirements are 12 hours from the departmental graduate core course, plus 12 hours of additional coursework within the department, with a minimum of 9 credit hours being 6000-level courses in or out of the department, of which up to three can come from (
CHEM ENG 6015).
View courses
FAQ document
Many potential graduate students have questions about how to apply to the graduate program and what makes them eligible. This document is aimed to answer some of those questions you may have. Email us at
chemeng@mst.edu
if you have other questions that are not covered.
View FAQ document
Graduate funding
There are very few funded M.S. positions. The funded ones are either directly recruited by professors or the department to fulfill special needs (e.g., lab TA). However, it is possible and not uncommon for a non-funded graduate student to become funded during their study after successfully talking to a research investigator (professor).
View faculty
Scholarships available
Graduate student handbook
The student handbook contains details about programs, requirements, processes and courses.
View handbook
Graduate Certificates
Complete a graduate certificate with us and gain automatic admission into our Chemical Engineering Master's program. Skill up and step up your career—seamlessly and efficiently.
Carbon Management Engineering Graduate Certificate
The carbon management engineering certificate program introduces the students to carbon management strategies related to the engineering principles of carbon capture, transformation, and storage.
Learn more
Eligibility
It is open to all persons holding a B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. degree in chemical engineering, petroleum engineering, mechanical engineering, or a closely allied discipline, including those who are currently accepted into a graduate degree program at Missouri S&T.
In order to be admitted, a student must have an overall GPA of 3.0, or 2.75 with a minimum of one year of work experience. Once admitted to the program, the student must take the four designated courses.
Requirements to Earn
It requires the students to complete three carbon management courses offered by Chemical and Biochemical Engineering (ChBE), Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering (MAE), and Geosciences and Geological and Petroleum Engineering (GGPE), respectively, plus an additional course to be selected from a variety of existing courses from these same departments.
To receive the certificate, the student must have an average cumulative grade point of 3.0 or better in the certificate courses.
Admission to Graduate Program
Once admitted to the certificate program, a student will be given three years to complete the program.
Chemical Process Engineering Graduate Certificate
The graduate certificate in chemical process engineering is aimed at helping working professionals expand skills relevant to their career while developing a deeper understanding of chemical engineering fundamentals.
Learn more
Eligibility
It is open to all individuals holding a BS degree in chemical engineering or a closely allied discipline with an overall GPA of 3.0 or 2.75 plus a minimum of one year of working experience.
Requirements to Earn
To earn the graduate certificate a student must take the four designated courses as advised by the graduate coordinator and complete them with an average GPA of 3.0 or better.
Admission to Graduate Program
If all the four certificate courses receive a grade of B or better, the student will, upon application, be admitted to the MS program in chemical engineering and the four courses will count toward an MS degree.
Your Career in Chemical Engineering
Estimated Starting Salary
$75,000 - $105,000
Career Pathways
Chemical Products:
Biochemical and biomedical
Polymer materials
Reaction engineering and catalysis
New/alternative energy
Consumer Products:
Food and nutritional products
Environmental engineering
Process systems engineering
Microelectronics and personal electronics
Pharmaceutical Industry:
Particle technology
Gene therapy
Drug discover, delivery, and manufacturing
Separation processes
Research in Chemical Engineering
Linda and Bipin Doshi Department of Chemical and Biochemical Engineering at Missouri S&T has developed a research infrastructure in the form of computational and experimental facilities that allow both students and faculty to pursue research and gain expertise in a specialized area.
Specialized Areas of Research
Biochemical and Biomedical Engineering
Carbon Management
Energy and Environment
Materials and Nanotechnology
Particle Technology and Characterization
Reaction Engineering
Transport Phenomena
Learn more
Research Funding
Research in the department is funded through external grants and contracts from several federal agencies, including the
National Science Foundation
, the
National Institutes of Health
, the
Department of Energy
, the
Environmental Protection Agency
, various agencies within the
Department of Defense
, state sources, and a number of companies.
Information for Future Students
Explore Other Programs
Financial Aid
Campus Living
Costs and Fees
Visit S&T
Admissions
Follow Linda and Bipin Doshi Department of Chemical and Biochemical Engineering
Facebook
Linked In
Instagram