Source: https://care.mst.edu/academic-programs/environmentalengineering/masters-degree-in-environmental-engineering/

Earn a Master's Degree in Environmental Engineering
Deploying effective environmental solutions begin with you.
Turn your passion for a healthier planet into a career that will benefit the world for generations to come. Whether you’re interested in helping clean the air, our drinking water, soil or natural systems, there is a path that is right for you.
Apply now
Want to Know More?
Get info on our program, scholarships, how to visit campus, admissions and more. Take the next step in solving for tomorrow!
Request info
Degree Information
Catalog information
The environmental engineering graduate program offers a Master of Science degree (thesis and non-thesis options). This field is rapidly advancing to include many of today’s greatest challenges, such as sustainability, carbon emissions and limited water resources. Courses in S&T's environmental engineering graduate degree program focus on engineering analysis that incorporate the fundamental physical, biological and chemical characteristics of natural and engineered environmental systems, while putting these engineering solutions in the context of societal needs and the requirements of environmental laws.
For more information, check out the university catalog:
Overview
Graduate Certificates
Geoenvironmental Engineering
Learn more
Mine Reclamation
Learn more
Research in Environmental Engineering
Our faculty's research interests and expertise encompass a wide range of subject areas.
Each year, faculty projects receive external funding from such agencies as NASA, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), the National Science Foundation (NSF), the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) and Missouri Department of Transportation (MoDOT).
Explore Research Fields
Architectural Engineering
Construction Engineering
Construction Materials
Environmental Engineering
Geotechnical Engineering
Structural Engineering
Transportation Engineering
Water Resources Engineering
Learn more about our research
See the Graduate Student Experience
Virtual Tour
Information for Future Students
Explore Other Programs
Financial Aid
Campus Living
Costs and Fees
Visit S&T
Admissions
Follow Civil, Architectural and Environmental Engineering
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
Instagram