Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/safety-engineering/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Safety Engineering
Engineering Management and Systems Engineering
|
Chemical Engineering
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
Safe engineering systems protect the health of workers and the public, preserve the environment, and improve the profitability of industrial facilities. The graduate certificate in safety engineering is a program of study that focuses on methods to reduce risks, prevent accidents, and/or mitigate the consequences to acceptable levels. Risk reduction is accomplished by identifying hazards with unacceptable consequences and then reducing the probability of occurrence (accident reduction) and/or reducing the consequences to acceptable levels (mitigation).
Admission requirements
The safety engineering graduate certificate program is open to all individuals holding a bachelor's degree in an engineering or physical science field with an overall GPA of 3.0; or those holding a bachelor’s degree in engineering or physical science with an overall GPA of 2.75 and having a minimum of one year of work experience.
Students admitted to the certificate program will have non-degree graduate status, but will earn graduate credit for the courses they complete.
The chemical and biological engineering department serves as the home department for students who select the chemical/metallurgical process safety, and process control systems tracks. The engineering management department serves as the home department for students who select the human factors, safety engineering management, or reliability tracks.
Students who successfully complete the graduate certificate with a grade of B or better in each of the courses taken, upon application, will be admitted to the master's degree program sponsoring the graduate certificate. The certificate courses taken by students admitted to the MS program will apply toward their master’s degree.
Once admitted to the certificate program, you will have three years to complete the certificate, as long as you maintain a B average in the courses taken.
Distance application requirements
Students applying for a graduate certificate must submit the following:
Completed Application
Statement of Purpose
Transcripts
Online Application
When you start a new application, select "Graduate Online/Distance" and then select the certificate program.
Don't forget to list your current employer and company location on the application.
Statement of purpose should be 2-3 paragraphs explaining why you are applying for this program.
Statement is to be submitted electronically on the
online application
; you'll copy and paste it into the provided text box.
Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for an admit decision.
Upload your transcripts on the
online application
under your "Institutional Data." If you previously attended S&T, you must upload your transcript. An unofficial transcript can be requested through Joe’SS.
How to Request Unofficial Transcripts
(pdf)
PDF scans are preferred.
The university requires official transcripts from all schools attended before a student may register for a second semester.
In order for a transcript to be counted as official it must be sent directly from the school to S&T, it cannot come from a student.
Official transcripts should be mailed to Global Learning:
Missouri University of Science and Technology
Office of Global Learning
G8 Norwood Hall, 320 West 12th Street
Rolla, MO 65409
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
Related Degrees
This graduate certificate may act as a pathway to the following master’s programs:
Engineering Management
(MS)
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby
Associate Director for Online Admissions
573-341-6903  |
stgrad@mst.edu
Engineering Management and Systems Engineering
573-341-4572  |
emgt@mst.edu
Toll Free: 1-800-441-5218
Department Website:
emse.mst.edu