Source: https://mae.mst.edu/academic-programs/bachelors-degree-in-mechanical-engineering/

Earn a Bachelor's Degree in Mechanical Engineering
Mechanical engineering is the broadest of all engineering disciplines; the role of the mechanical engineer is expanding well beyond the traditional automotive and manufacturing industries.
Our alums are in high demand by first-class employers around the country. While pursuing your mechanical engineering degree, you will gain hands-on experience through design courses, laboratory instruction and research opportunities. You will also have the opportunity to join many top-ranked design teams, like Miner Racing and the Human Powered Vehicle team.
Apply now
Want to Know More?
Get info on our program, scholarships, how to visit campus, admissions and more. Take the next step in solving for tomorrow!
Request info
Degree Information
Curriculum
As an incoming student, you'll work toward completing common freshman year courses while acquiring information to help you determine a major and career. During the first two or three semesters on campus, you will take a set of courses that are required by all engineering departments. After successfully completing the common freshmen year academic requirements, you'll formally apply for admission to the mechanical and aerospace engineering department. Admission is nearly automatic if you've completed these requirements.
For more information, check out the university catalog:
View catalog
Manufacturing processes emphasis
As a student pursuing a degree in mechanical engineering, you can acquire an emphasis in manufacturing processes by following requirements listed in the course catalog.
View catalog
Foundational engineering
As an incoming student, you'll work toward completing common freshman year courses while acquiring information to help you determine a major and career. During the first two or three semesters on campus, you will take a set of courses that are required by all engineering departments. After successfully completing the
common freshmen year academic requirements
, you'll formally apply for admission to the mechanical and aerospace engineering department. Admission is nearly automatic if you've completed these requirements and the MAE admission requirements.
Learn more about the program:
FOUNDATIONAL ENGINEERING
Department admissions requirements
The following guidelines are used in evaluating applications for admission to the ME and AE degree programs.
Not currently on probation or deficiency status.
Completed Math 1214 or 1211, Math 1215, Phys 1135, and Chem 1310 with a C or better.
A cumulative GPA ≥ 2.5. The cumulative GPA includes both S&T and transfer courses. It includes any GPA adjustment from the grade replacement policy.
UM cumulative GPA ≥ 2.5. The UM cumulative GPA includes courses taken at any of the University of Missouri campuses. It includes all grades for any repeated courses, with no GPA adjustment from the repeat course GPA adjustment policy.
A cumulative Math and Science GPA ≥ 2.25. The cumulative Math and Science GPA includes all courses listed below that have been completed at the time of application to the ME or AE program. It includes all grades for any repeated courses, with no GPA adjustment from the repeat course GPA adjustment policy.
Math and science courses to be included in the Math and Science GPA:
Math 1214 or 1211, Math1215, Phys 1135, Chem 1310, Math 2222, Math 3304, Phys 2135, ME/AE 2360, ME 2519, AE 2861, CE 2200, CE 2210, EE 2800
Students are allowed to continue taking the sophomore level ME or AE courses in order to satisfy the admission requirements and re-apply for admission. However, graduation from the ME or AE program expects official admission to the program before the junior year ME or AE courses are begun.
Students not meeting the above standards may request special consideration only for unusual circumstances by including with the application a written statement, including motivation for the choice of the degree program and justification for why special consideration is warranted. Consideration of exceptions will be made based on convincing evidence of likelihood of success in the program, as well as on availability of space in the program.
Grad Track Pathway program
The Grad Track Pathway offers early provisional admission to the master’s degree program to exceptional undergraduate students and is designed for these students to earn coursework credit towards their master’s degree while completing their bachelor’s degree in the same discipline.
Learn more
.
Undergraduate Emphasis Areas
Energy Conversion
While earning your bachelor's degree in Mechanical Engineering, take a specialized set of courses with an emphasis in energy conversion.
View on catalog
Manufacturing Processes
While earning your bachelor's degree in Mechanical Engineering, take a specialized set of courses with an emphasis in manufacturing processes.
View on catalog
Mechanical Design and Analysis
While earning your bachelor's degree in Mechanical Engineering, take a specialized set of courses with an emphasis in mechanical design and analysis.
View on catalog
Systems Integration
While earning your bachelor's degree in Mechanical Engineering, take a specialized set of courses with an emphasis in systems integration.
View on catalog
What Students Say About S&T
I loved Missouri S&T’s emphasis on their work to make great engineering programs, like MAE. Making it big in several opportunities such as undergraduate research, professors, and curriculum, it all comes together in a cohesive collection for myself to absorb and apply.
— Daniel Yoon, United States
I have really enjoyed my time as an undergraduate researcher. I work for the department, under the Honeywell project and this has opened a lot of doors for me. The whole experience has been very valuable to my education and career development.
— Ashley Schmid, United States
Your Career in Mechanical Engineering
With a mechanical engineering degree, you are creating the opportunity to work in virtually any industry.
Mechanical engineers are involved in the creation of almost anything human-made! There are limitless possibilities for exciting careers in impactful fields.
Starting Salary
The average salary for S&T students in the last year was $63,430.
Career Fields
Renewable energy
Transportation
Aerospace
Defense
Manufacturing
Bioengineering
See the Undergraduate Student Experience
Virtual Tour
Information for Future Students
Explore Other Programs
Financial Aid
Campus Living
Costs and Fees
Visit S&T
Admissions
Follow Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Facebook
Twitter
Linked In
Youtube
Instagram