Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/sustainability-in-mining/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Sustainability in Mining
Mining and Explosives Engineering
Apply Now
Request Info
About the Certificate
This program is designed to provide formalized education in sustainability implications of mining and aims to equip students with skills that allow them evaluate and incorporate sustainability implications into the design and operation of mines
.
Students admitted to this certificate program must take the four required courses outlined in the the curriculum section, and obtain a cumulative GPA of 3.0 or better to earn the certificate.
Curriculum
The following courses are required:
MIN ENG 5742 Environmental Aspects of Mining Permitting
: the legal environment of reclamation and environmental impact assessment; post-mining land-use selection and mine planning for optimum reclamation of all mines: metal, nonmetal, and coal; unit operations of reclamation: drainage, backfill, soil replacement, revegetation, maintenance, etc.
Delivery: Main Campus & Online/Spring Semester
MIN ENG 6712 Managing Social and Environmental Risks in Mining
(Intro to Responsible Mining): This course is an introduction to responsible mining. It focuses on industry and NGO programs around sustainability and reporting in mining, financial community response, community of interest engagement and participation, and safety and crisis response and management.
Delivery: Main Campus & Online/Fall Semester
MIN ENG 6735 Sustainability in Mining
: Sustainability defined: social, economic and environmental impacts. Mining as sustainable development interventions. Mine planning for sustainability, sustainability assessment and reporting, sustainable mine closure and post-mining land use. Case studies.
Delivery: Main Campus & Online/Spring Semester
ENV ENG 5642 Sustainability, Population, Energy, Water and Materials
: This course will examine the concepts regarding the continued advancement of humankind while maintaining our ecological niche on earth. Key topics include: population growth, poverty, and impacts of development; energy consumption, sources, storage, conservation and policy; water quality and quantity; materials and building; and policy implications.
Delivery: Main Campus & Online/Fall Semester
Admission requirements
The Sustainability in Mining Certificate Program is open to all persons holding a B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. degree in Engineering, Science, and/or Mathematics, or are currently accepted into a graduate degree program at Missouri S&T. Once admitted to the program, the student must take the four designated courses (provided in the curriculum section). In order to receive a Graduate Certificate, the student must have an average cumulative grade point of 3.0 or better in the certificate courses. Once admitted to the program, a student will be given three years to complete the program.
Students admitted to the Sustainability in Mining Certificate Program will have non-degree graduate status; however, they will earn graduate credit for the course they complete. If the student completes the four-course sequence with a grade of B or better in each of the courses taken, they, upon application, will be admitted to the M.S. degree program in mining engineering. The certificate credits taken by the students admitted to the M.S. degree program will count towards their master's degrees. Students who do not have all of the prerequisite courses necessary to begin the courses in the Sustainability in Mining Certificate Program will be allowed to take ''bridge" courses at either the graduate or undergraduate level to prepare for the formal certificate courses.
Distance application requirements
Students applying for a graduate certificate must submit the following:
Completed Application
Statement of Purpose
Transcripts
Online Application
When you start a new application, select "Graduate Online/Distance" and then select the certificate program.
Don't forget to list your current employer and company location on the application.
Statement of purpose should be 2-3 paragraphs explaining why you are applying for this program.
Statement is to be submitted electronically on the
online application
; you'll copy and paste it into the provided text box.
Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for an admit decision.
Upload your transcripts on the
online application
under your "Institutional Data." If you previously attended S&T, you must upload your transcript. An unofficial transcript can be requested through Joe’SS.
How to Request Unofficial Transcripts
(pdf)
PDF scans are preferred.
The university requires official transcripts from all schools attended before a student may register for a second semester.
In order for a transcript to be counted as official it must be sent directly from the school to S&T, it cannot come from a student.
Official transcripts should be mailed to Global Learning:
Missouri University of Science and Technology
Office of Global Learning
G8 Norwood Hall, 320 West 12th Street
Rolla, MO 65409
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
Related Degrees
This graduate certificate may act as a pathway to the following master’s programs:
Mining Engineering
(MS)
Environmental Engineering
()
Geological Engineering
()
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby, Associate Director for Online Admissions
Phone: 573-341-6903
Email:
stgrad@mst.edu
Mining and Explosives Engineering
Kathleen German
Administrative Assistant
Phone: 573-341-4753
Email:
kg2kv@mst.edu