Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/iron-steel-metallurgy/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Iron and Steel Metallurgy
Materials Science and Engineering
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
Most of the world’s building infrastructure and a number of industries heavily rely on steel. Gain advanced insights into the fundamental physical processes and mechanisms in the production, metals casting, rolling, forging and heat treatments of ferrous materials and their various uses. Explore areas in metallurgy, extractive metallurgy and advanced additive manufacturing for practices and applications.
Admission requirements
The Iron and Steel Metallurgy Certificate Program is open to all persons holding a bachelor's, master's, or doctorate degree in engineering, science, and/or mathematics and who have a minimum of one year of professional employment experience, or are currently accepted into a graduate degree program at Missouri S&T. Once admitted to the program, the student must take the four designated courses. In order to receive a graduate certificate, the student must have an average cumulative grade point of 3.0 or better in the certificate courses.  Once admitted to the program, a student will be given three years to complete the program.
A student admitted to the Iron and Steel Metallurgy Certificate Program will have non-degree graduate status; however, they will earn graduate credit for the courses they complete. If the four-course sequence is completed with a grade of B or better in each of the courses taken, the student, upon application, will be admitted to the master’s degree program sponsoring the graduate certificate, provided that all other program prerequisites and admission requirements are met.  The certificate credits taken by the student admitted to the master's degree program will count toward their master's degree. Students who do not have all of the prerequisite courses necessary to begin the courses in the Iron and Steel Metallurgy Certificate Program will be allowed to take ''bridge" courses at either the graduate or undergraduate level to prepare for the formal certificate courses.
Distance application requirements
Students applying for a graduate certificate must submit the following:
Completed Application
Statement of Purpose
Transcripts
Online Application
When you start a new application, select "Graduate Online/Distance" and then select the certificate program.
Don't forget to list your current employer and company location on the application.
Statement of purpose should be 2-3 paragraphs explaining why you are applying for this program.
Statement is to be submitted electronically on the
online application
; you'll copy and paste it into the provided text box.
Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for an admit decision.
Upload your transcripts on the
online application
under your "Institutional Data." If you previously attended S&T, you must upload your transcript. An unofficial transcript can be requested through Joe’SS.
How to Request Unofficial Transcripts
(pdf)
PDF scans are preferred.
The university requires official transcripts from all schools attended before a student may register for a second semester.
In order for a transcript to be counted as official it must be sent directly from the school to S&T, it cannot come from a student.
Official transcripts should be mailed to Global Learning:
Missouri University of Science and Technology
Office of Global Learning
G8 Norwood Hall, 320 West 12th Street
Rolla, MO 65409
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Program structure
This program is 100% online: no campus visits required.
Courses are semester-based. Students typically take one or two classes per semester and finish the program in one year.
Delivery
100% online
Calendar system
Semester-based
Typical program length
1–2 years
Typical course load
1–2 courses a semester
Courses are offered asynchronously, meaning they do not have regular meetings. They may consist of various media and content — such as online discussions, videos, quizzes and recordings — that students review and complete at the time of their choice.
Required Courses – 12 credit hours
The flowing are the courses offered in the program. Courses are 3 credit hours each, unless stated otherwise. The University reserves the right to change or cancel courses as needed.
See here for the course descriptions.
REQUIRED CORE COURSE (SELECT ONE) – 3 credit hours
MET ENG 5810 Principles of Engineering Materials
MET ENG 6320 Advanced Steels and their Treatment
ELECTIVES (SELECT THREE)
– 9 credit hours
MET ENG 5310 Corrosion and its Prevention
MET ENG 5440 Metal Deformation Processes
MET ENG 5450 Advanced Steelmaking
MET ENG 5470 Ferrous Metals Casting
MET ENG 6320 Advanced Steels and their Treatment
MS&E 6130 Kinetic Theory for Materials
Note: MET ENG 5450 and MET ENG 6320 can be taken as the required course or as an elective, but not both.
Accreditation
Missouri University of Science & Technology is accredited by the
Higher Learning Commission
, one of six regional institutional accreditors in the United States.
Nondegree-seeking enrollment
Prior to acceptance into the program, you may enroll in up to 6 credit hours as a nondegree-seeking (in some cases, post-baccalaureate) student. Enrollment does not guarantee acceptance. Learn more about
nondegree-seeking university student admissions
.
State authorization
States require that Missouri University of Science and Technology be authorized to deliver university-level distance/online education to their residents. Each state handles this process differently.
Please see our
state authorization page
for more information.
Authorized
Students residing in all states are eligible to enroll in this program.
Internships
Internships are available and encouraged to explore real-life applications of teacher leadership. Learn more about offerings on
S&T's Career Opportunities page
.
Faculty
Our academic leaders are experts in their disciplines who bring extensive experience in higher education, industry, and departmental management. Learn more about
S&T's Materials Science and Engineering Faculty
.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby
Associate Director for Online Admissions
Phone: 573-341-6903
Email:
stgrad@mst.edu
Materials Science and Engineering
Michael Moats, PhD
Professor of Metallurgical Engineering, Associate Chair of Graduate Programs for Materials Science and Engineering
Phone: 573-341-6974
Fax: 573-341-6934
Email:
moatsm@mst.edu