Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-degrees/industrial-organizational-psychology/

Real Degrees for Working Professionals
Master of Science in Industrial-Organizational Psychology
Psychology in the Workplace
Learn the application of psychological science to enhance the performance and well-being of people in organizations.
Think about all the ways you can improve the workplace. Based on your observations, you know that effective communication can drive collaboration and that data has the potential to refine hiring efforts and better define performance metrics. At the same time, organizational culture remains in a continuous state of upheaval, whether for embracing technological progress or motivating teams. Industrial-organizational (I-O) psychologists are integral to this process, including in human resources, training and development or as an organizational behavior consultant.
Missouri University of Science and Technology’s (Missouri S&T) online master of science in industrial-organizational psychology gives you this edge. For those looking to apply their psychology knowledge or individuals interested in transforming workplace culture, recruitment, training and performance management through social science, this program examines the interplay between human behavior and the work environment through research, statistics, data analysis and psychological theories. You’ll understand how psychological principles can encourage workers to meet key objectives and create a more welcoming, supportive culture for all.
Missouri S&T's master of science in industrial-organizational psychology was ranked a best online psychology master's degree by
Forbes Advisor
.
Why earn a master’s degree in I-O psychology?
I-O psychology is both a rapidly rising career path and psychology subfield for one prominent reason. Organizations strive to make more innovative decisions, remain more competitive, attract the right talent and shape attitudes to meet specific benchmarks. Resources, on the other hand, are limited, leaving minimal room for experimentation.
I-O psychologists ultimately architect a smarter, more streamlined workplace from the top down and across multiple departments and divisions. Their involvement helps establish and track more targeted measurements, make science-backed decisions and create more engaged, inclusive teams. Focused on technology-centered workplaces, Missouri S&T’s online master’s in industrial-organizational psychology trains you to tackle these challenges and direct these initiatives:
Learn to more effectively manage human resources, hiring, training and retention efforts in a STEM organization.
Understand the role of human factors in attracting, motivating, training and retaining employees and implementing technology in the workplace.
See how research and the scientific method can influence organizational decision-making, from who to hire to adapting workflows to developing a long-term growth strategy.
Translate your psychology knowledge to optimize an organization’s performance, from management, hiring and engagement to changing company culture.
Get a stronger grasp on the intersection between humans, the workplace and their communities and how these relationships can shape management, hiring, training and diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) strategies.
Prepare to help organizations address high turnover, conflicts, safety concerns, culture and stagnant or declining productivity.
Admission Requirements
Bachelor’s degree in related field
Undergraduate GPA ≥ 3.0
GRE V+Q ≥ 300
International requirement: TOEFL ≥ 88,  or IELTS
≥ 6.5, or
satisfactory completion of an approved English language Institute program.
Application Deadlines
Applicants should expect to start the program in the fall; however, exceptions may be made for special circumstances where a student may start in a spring semester. We have both an early decision and standard decision process.
Please refer to the timeline below for details.
Early decisions will be made within two weeks of applying for applicants who have an overall undergraduate GPA of 3.5 or greater, undergraduate
psychology
GPA of 3.5 or greater, a total GRE score (if applicable) of 300 or greater, and who have completed courses in research methods, statistics and have research experience. A major in psychology is preferred, but related majors are welcome to apply.
If you are admitted into the program, you must accept by March 1, or within four weeks of notification.
Standard decisions will be made by  April 15 or within two weeks from the date the application is received. Standard decisions are for those applicants with an overall undergraduate GPA of 3.0 or greater, an undergraduate
psychology
GPA of 3.25 or greater,  a total GRE score
(if applicable) of 300 or greater,
and who have completed courses in research methods and statistics, but have no research experience.
Majors in psychology and related fields are encouraged to apply.
Graduate Certificates
Your Pathway to a Graduate Degree
Start earning college credit toward a graduate degree. The GRE is not required to enter a certificate program, and credit earned may be applied toward your master’s degree.*
Graduate Certificate Programs
Applied Workplace Psychology
Human Factors Psychology
*restrictions may apply
Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply. Check with the academic department for program specific details and requirements.
Learn more about the certificate to master's program
.
Program structure
This program is 100% online: no campus visits required.
Courses are semester-based. Students typically take one or two classes per semester and finish the program in one year.
Delivery
100% online
Calendar system
Semester-based
Typical program length
1–2 years
Typical course load
1–2 courses a semester
Courses are offered asynchronously, meaning they do not have regular meetings. They may consist of various media and content — such as online discussions, videos, quizzes and recordings — that students review and complete at the time of their choice.
Required Course Work – 37 credit hours
Missouri S&T’s online master’s in industrial-organizational psychology involves 37 credit hours over three course segments: a core (21 credit hours), methods courses (10 credit hours) and six credit hours for a thesis or electives.
Students choose from thesis and non-thesis tracks. Developing a thesis is ideal if you see yourself in a research-heavy career or eventually applying to a doctoral program. Individuals starting in a graduate certificate program will be enrolled in the non-thesis track.
Students build their program course work in consultation with their advisor. The flowing are the courses offered in the program. Courses are 3 credit hours each, unless stated otherwise. The University reserves the right to change or cancel courses as needed. Refer to the
S&T Grad Catalog
to explore course descriptions.
REQUIRED CORE COURSE – 21 credit hours
PSYCH 5020 Introduction to Industrial-Organizational Psychology
PSYCH 5601 Small Group Dynamics
PSYCH 5700 Job Analysis and Performance Management
PSYCH 6610 Leadership, Motivation, and Culture
PSYCH 6702 Personnel Selection
PSYCH 6602 Organizational Development & Employee Perspectives
PSYCH 6700 Training and Development
METHODS COURSES – 10 credit hours
PSYCH 5201 Psychometrics
PSYCH 5210 Advanced Research Methods
PSYCH 5012 Ethics and Professional Responsibilities
PSYCH 5202 Applied Psychological Data Analysis
ELECTIVES – 6 credit hours
PSYCH 5710 Advanced Human Factors
PSYCH 5600 Advanced Social Psychology
PSYCH 5740 Occupational Health and Safety
PSYCH 5001 Special Topics
Students completing a thesis would need to complete the following in place of electives:
PSYCH 6099 Research
Accreditation
Missouri University of Science & Technology is accredited by the
Higher Learning Commission
, one of six regional institutional accreditors in the United States.
Nondegree-seeking enrollment
Prior to acceptance into the program, you may enroll in up to 6 credit hours as a nondegree-seeking (in some cases, post-baccalaureate) student. Enrollment does not guarantee acceptance. Learn more about
nondegree-seeking university student admissions
.
Licensure and disclosures
If you live outside of Missouri and are thinking about enrolling in a program that leads to professional licensure, the University of Missouri System strongly recommends that you check with the relevant licensing board in your state or the state where you plan to work. This will help you obtain the most current information about state licensure requirements before you enroll in any academic program. While Missouri University of Science & Technology strives to provide current licensure information, it's important to note that licensure regulations are subject to change.
For more details, please visit our
licensure and disclosure page
.
State authorization
States require that Missouri University of Science and Technology be authorized to deliver university-level distance/online education to their residents.
The process for authorization varies by state
.
For more details, please visit our
state authorization page
.
Authorized
Students residing in all states are eligible to enroll in this program.
Internships
Internships are encouraged for explore real-life applications of teacher leadership. Find more about available opportunities on
S&T's Career Opportunities
page.
Faculty
Our academic leaders are experts in their disciplines who bring extensive experience in higher education, industry, and departmental management. Learn more about
S&T's Psychological Science Faculty
.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby
Associate Director for Online Admissions
573-341-6903  |
stgrad@mst.edu
Psychological Science
Clair Reynolds Kueny, PhD
Associate Professor and Chair, Department of Psychological Science,
Program Director Industrial-Organizational Psychology Programs
573-341-4732  |
kuenyc@mst.edu
Department Website:
psych.mst.edu