Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-degrees/geotechnics/

Real Degrees for Working Professionals
Master of Engineering in Geotechnics
Apply scientific methods and engineering principles to earth materials and structures. The master of engineering in Geotechnics combines the fields of rock mechanics and soil mechanics with engineering to form a comprehensive program of study.
This is a non-thesis interdisciplinary program with a practice-oriented project. Courses include geology, geotechnics, soil mechanics, rock mechanics and subsurface hydrology.  It requires
30 credit hours of coursework to complete, with a minimum of 15 credit hours of geological engineering courses. A maximum of nine credit hours of graduate-level work (grade B or better) can be transferred from other univerisites, if approved. Classes must have been completed in the last five years to be eligible for transfer.
The following courses (or equivalents) are required courses:
GEO ENG 5381 Int. Subsurface Hydrology and Contaminant Transport
GEO ENG 5441 Engineering Geology and Geotechnics
GEO ENG 5471 Rock Engineering
CIV ENG 5715 Intermediate Soil Mechanics or MinE 6842: Rock Mechanics II
In addition a practice-oriented project report is required for new students. This requires enrolling in three hours of GEO ENG 6400, and producing a practice-oriented report in a topic approved by the program coordinator.
Other courses approved by the program coordinator may be substituted for any of the above listed courses on a case-by-case basi
s.
Admission Requirements
Bachelor’s degree in related discipline
Undergraduate GPA ≥ 3.0
International requirement: TOEFL ≥ 79, IELTS
≥ 6.5,
or satisfactory completion of an approved English language Institute program.
The following courses (or equivalents) will be required for admission to the Geotechnics ME program:
GEO ENG 1150 Physical and Environmental Geology
GEO ENG 2605 Statics and Mechanics of Geological Materials
MIN ENG 4823 Rock Mechanics I or CE 3715 Elementary Soil Mechanics
Graduate Certificates
Your Pathway to a Graduate Degree
Start earning college credit toward a graduate degree. The GRE is not required to enter a certificate program, and credit earned may be applied toward your master’s degree.*
Graduate Certificate Program
Geotechnics
*restrictions may apply
Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply. Check with the academic department for program specific details and requirements.
Learn more about the certificate to master's program
.
Accreditation
Missouri University of Science & Technology is accredited by the
Higher Learning Commission
, one of six regional institutional accreditors in the United States.
Nondegree-seeking enrollment
Prior to acceptance into the program, you may enroll in up to 6 credit hours as a nondegree-seeking (in some cases, post-baccalaureate) student. Enrollment does not guarantee acceptance. Learn more about
nondegree-seeking university student admissions
.
Licensure and disclosures
If you live outside of Missouri and are thinking about enrolling in a program that leads to professional licensure, the University of Missouri System strongly recommends that you check with the relevant licensing board in your state or the state where you plan to work. This will help you obtain the most current information about state licensure requirements before you enroll in any academic program. While Missouri University of Science & Technology strives to provide current licensure information, it's important to note that licensure regulations are subject to change.
For more details, please visit our
licensure and disclosure page
.
State authorization
States require that Missouri University of Science and Technology be authorized to deliver university-level distance/online education to their residents.
The process for authorization varies by state
.
For more details, please visit our
state authorization page
.
Authorized
Students residing in all states are eligible to enroll in this program.
Internships
Internships are encouraged for explore real-life applications of teacher leadership. Find more about available opportunities on
S&T's Career Opportunities
page.
Faculty
Our academic leaders are experts in their respective disciplines and bring extensive experience in higher education, industry, and departmental management. Learn more about the
Earth Sciences and Engineering Faculty
at S&T.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby
Associate Director for Online Admissions
573-341-6903  |
stgrad@mst.edu
Earth Sciences and Engineering
Jeffrey D. Cawlfield, PhD
Interim Department Chair and Professor
573-341-6774  |
jdc@mst.edu
Department Email:
gtech@mst.edu
Department Website:
ese.mst.edu