Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/applied-workplace-psychology/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Applied Workplace Psychology
Psychological Science
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
Looking to encourage employee and team success? Discover innovative, ready-to-apply tactics rooted in scientific research through Missouri University of Science and Technology (Missouri S&T) online graduate certificate in applied workplace psychology.
Ask yourself this: how does your workplace currently achieve its goals? For years, the message has been that motivation and direction come from the top. As well, such progress is said to hinge on engaged, diligent leaders who orchestrate strategies and delegate tasks among a team.
Yet, more recently, a third factor has emerged — team dynamics and the role company culture plays in fostering employee growth, meeting objectives and nurturing potential. Industrial-organizational psychology emerged around the principle that analysis of job requirements, interpersonal relationships and the work environment can drive all to perform their best.
This four-course online graduate certificate program introduces professionals in business, human resources, consulting, psychology and other fields to core industrial-organizational psychology topics. Learn to enact change from within your own organization while simultaneously expanding your own credentials.
Missouri S&T gears this program to individuals with at least one year of professional experience. Following completion, you can apply your credits toward a master of science in industrial-organizational psychology.
Admission requirements
The Applied Workplace certificate program
is open to all persons holding a bachelor's, master's or doctorate
degree in psychology, business, or a related field, and who have a minimum of one year of professional employment experience. Once admitted to the program, the student must take the four designated courses (provided in the curriculum section of the
graduate course catalog
). In order to receive the graduate certificate, the student must have an average cumulative grade point of 3.0 or better in the certificate courses. Once admitted, a student has three years to complete the program.
Students admitted to the certificate program will have non-degree graduate status; however, they will earn graduate credit for the courses they complete. If the student completes the four-course sequence with a grade of B or better in each of the courses taken, they, may be admitted to the master's degree program in Industrial-Organizational Psychology, without taking the GRE. Students must still go through the formal application process and may be expected to meet other requirements for admission.
Should the student be accepted into the M.S. degree program, the certificate credits taken will count toward their master's degree. Students who do not have all of the prerequisite courses necessary to begin the courses in the Applied Workplace Psychology certificate program will be allowed to take ''bridge" courses (determined on a case-by-case basis) at either the graduate or undergraduate level to prepare for the formal certificate courses.
Distance application requirements
Students applying for a graduate certificate must submit the following:
Completed Application
Statement of Purpose
Transcripts
Online Application
When you start a new application, select "Graduate Online/Distance" and then select the certificate program.
Don't forget to list your current employer and company location on the application.
Statement of purpose should be 2-3 paragraphs explaining why you are applying for this program.
Statement is to be submitted electronically on the
online application
; you'll copy and paste it into the provided text box.
Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for an admit decision.
Upload your transcripts on the
online application
under your "Institutional Data." If you previously attended S&T, you must upload your transcript. An unofficial transcript can be requested through Joe’SS.
How to Request Unofficial Transcripts
(pdf)
PDF scans are preferred.
The university requires official transcripts from all schools attended before a student may register for a second semester.
In order for a transcript to be counted as official it must be sent directly from the school to S&T, it cannot come from a student.
Official transcripts should be mailed to Global Learning:
Missouri University of Science and Technology
Office of Global Learning
G8 Norwood Hall, 320 West 12th Street
Rolla, MO 65409
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
Related Degrees
This graduate certificate may act as a pathway to the following master’s programs:
Industrial-Organizational Psychology
(MS)
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Program structure
This program is 100% online: no campus visits required.
Courses are semester-based. Students typically take one or two classes per semester and finish the program in one year.
Delivery
100% online
Calendar system
Semester-based
Typical program length
1–2 years
Typical course load
1–2 courses a semester
Courses are offered asynchronously, meaning they do not have regular meetings. They may consist of various media and content — such as online discussions, videos, quizzes and recordings — that students review and complete at the time of their choice.
Required Courses – 12 credit hours
The flowing are the courses offered in the program. Courses are 3 credit hours each, unless stated otherwise. The University reserves the right to change or cancel courses as needed. See the
course descriptions
.
PSYCH 5020 Introduction to Industrial-Organizational Psychology
PSYCH 5210 Advanced Research Methods
PSYCH 5601 Small Group Dynamics
PSYCH 5700 Job Analysis and Performance Management
Accreditation
Missouri University of Science & Technology is accredited by the
Higher Learning Commission
, one of six regional institutional accreditors in the United States.
Nondegree-seeking enrollment
Prior to acceptance into the program, you may enroll in up to 6 credit hours as a nondegree-seeking (in some cases, post-baccalaureate) student. Enrollment does not guarantee acceptance. Learn more about
nondegree-seeking university student admissions
.
Licensure and disclosures
If you live outside of Missouri and are thinking about enrolling in a program that leads to professional licensure, the University of Missouri System strongly recommends that you check with the relevant licensing board in your state or the state where you plan to work. This will help you obtain the most current information about state licensure requirements before you enroll in any academic program. While Missouri University of Science & Technology strives to provide current licensure information, it's important to note that licensure regulations are subject to change.
For more details, please visit our
licensure and disclosure page
.
State authorization
States require that Missouri University of Science and Technology be authorized to deliver university-level distance/online education to their residents.
The process for authorization varies by state
.
For more details, please visit our
state authorization page
.
Authorized
Students residing in all states are eligible to enroll in this program.
Internships
Internships are encouraged for explore real-life applications of teacher leadership. Find more about available opportunities on
S&T's Career Opportunities
page.
Faculty
Our academic leaders are experts in their disciplines who bring extensive experience in higher education, industry, and departmental management. Learn more about
S&T's Psychological Science Faculty
.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby
Associate Director for Online Admissions
573-341-6903  |
stgrad@mst.edu
Psychological Science
Clair Reynolds Kueny, PhD
Associate Professor and Chair, Department of Psychological Science,
Program Director Industrial-Organizational Psychology Programs
573-341-4732  |
kuenyc@mst.edu
Department Website:
psych.mst.edu