Source: https://chem.mst.edu/academic-programs/graduate-programs/

Graduate Degrees Offered
Ph.D.
Ph.D.
Degree awarded for original research in chemistry.
M.S.T
M.S.T.
This program is primarily designed for high school teachers in the sciences and mathematics who want to further their education and earn an advanced degree.
M.S.
M.S.
Involves graduate level course work with the potential to include a research component.
Visit Missouri S&T’s
Welcome Future Students
website and, on that page, visit the links to
Graduate Admission
and
Graduate Checklist
.
We welcome
prospective graduate students
to visit S&T's Department of Chemistry.  Travel funds are available from the Department of Chemistry and S&T's Graduate School.
Desiderata for applicants for graduate studies in chemistry are posted
here
.
Note also the desired
graduate learning outcomes
(GLOs).
GLO pg 1
&
GLO pg 2
Admission and Program Requirements for Graduate Students
in the department of chemistry,
Rev. 8/15/22
(
Rev. 5/19/21
,
Rev. 10/16/20
,
Rev. 02/04/20
). Compare the general
admissions and academic program procedures
of S&T and the sections about the
master’s degree program
and the
doctoral degree program
.
Navigate to the Educational Testing Service Homepage
here
.
Information about
Qualifier Examinations and Qualifier Courses
.
GA/GTA/GRA assignment requests are made by faculty advisers for their graduate students using this
form
. All graduate students must successfully complete the GTA workshop before they can be assigned as graduate teaching assistants (GTA). International graduate students serve as graduate assistants (GA) in their first semester and they are expected to pass the GTA workshop and the SPEAK test by the end of their first semester.  The Speech Communication Center offers the
GTA workshop and the SPEAK test
. Click to read the announcement of the
Workshop and Required SPEAK Test for GTAs
and to learn about the potential
waiver procedure
.
At the time GA/GTA/GRA assignment requests are received, the office staff will check whether the graduate students might have any outstanding UM System training requirements in myLearn and/or outstanding
S&T EHS
General Laboratory Safety Training (
GLST
) requirements.  If there are such outstanding requirements, the graduate students will be reminded of these requirements and requested to demonstrate in the following couple of days that they took and passed all required myLearn and
GLST
modules.  Failure to do so may delay the processing of the GA/GTA/GRA employment paperwork.
GTA evaluations are done at the end of the spring and fall semesters.
Report of Mandated Annual Graduate Committee Meeting form (
PDF
,
PDF fillable
). Annual reviews are mandated by the “Requirements for Graduate Students” posted above.  However, graduate students who passed their Comprehensive Examination or have scheduled their Comprehensive Examination in a given calendar year are exempt from the annual committee review in that calendar year.
‌
Admissions Staff
Dr. Pablo Sobrado
Chair, Graduate Recruiting Committee
(573) 341-4768
|
psobrado@mst.edu
|
234 Schrenk Hall
The Chair of the Graduate Recruiting Committee also serves as the department’s Graduate Coordinator and is a member of the
Council of Graduate Coordinators
.
The committee charges are described by the Graduate Recruiting Committee Rules (
Version 2.1: 8/11/2021
).  Version 2.1 includes one addition which is explained in the
addendum of 6/1/2021
.  A generic worksheet on graduate student support (XLSX format) can be downloaded
here
.
Policy Memorandum No. II-20
establishes enrollment requirements for M.S. and Ph.D. students.
Policy Memorandum II-26
describes the distribution of the financial cost of tuition and fees between the University and research sponsors.