Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/advanced-materials-for-sustainable-infrastructure/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Advanced Materials for Sustainable Infrastructure
Civil, Architectural and Environmental Engineering
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
This certificate program is designed to provide formalized education in the area of advanced structural materials for sustainable building and transportation infrastructure. The courses offered provide a specialized approach to the study of materials science and engineering and emerging technologies used for the design of sustainable and resilient construction and repair/rehabilitation materials using an interdisciplinary approach.
Admission requirements
The graduate certificate program is open to all individuals holding a B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. degree in an appropriate engineering discipline and who have a minimum of two years of professional experience, or are currently accepted into a graduate degree program in the Department of Civil, Architectural and Environmental Engineering.
The certificate program consists of four courses. In order to receive a graduate certificate, the student must have an average graduate cumulative grade point of 3.0 or better in the certificate courses taken.
Students admitted to the certificate program will have non-degree graduate status but will earn graduate credit for the courses they complete. If the four-course sequence approved by the graduate adviser is completed with a grade of B or better in each of the courses taken, the student will be admitted to the M.S. degree program in civil engineering, if they apply. The certificate courses taken by students admitted to the program will count toward their master’s degree.
Once admitted to the program, a student will be given three years to complete the program as long as a B average is maintained in the courses taken.
Distance application requirements
Students applying for a graduate certificate must submit the following:
Completed Application
Statement of Purpose
Transcripts
Online Application
When you start a new application, select "Graduate Online/Distance" and then select the certificate program.
Don't forget to list your current employer and company location on the application.
Statement of purpose should be 2-3 paragraphs explaining why you are applying for this program.
Statement is to be submitted electronically on the
online application
; you'll copy and paste it into the provided text box.
Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for an admit decision.
Upload your transcripts on the
online application
under your "Institutional Data." If you previously attended S&T, you must upload your transcript. An unofficial transcript can be requested through Joe’SS.
How to Request Unofficial Transcripts
(pdf)
PDF scans are preferred.
The university requires official transcripts from all schools attended before a student may register for a second semester.
In order for a transcript to be counted as official it must be sent directly from the school to S&T, it cannot come from a student.
Official transcripts should be mailed to Global Learning:
Missouri University of Science and Technology
Office of Global Learning
G8 Norwood Hall, 320 West 12th Street
Rolla, MO 65409
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
Related Degrees
This graduate certificate may act as a pathway to the following master’s programs:
Civil Engineering
(MS)
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby, Associate Director for Online Admissions
Phone: 573-341-6903
Email:
stgrad@mst.edu
Civil, Architectural and
Environmental Engineering
Dr. William Schonberg
Professor
230 Butler-Carlton Hall
Rolla, MO 65409-6549
Phone: 573-341-4787
Email:
wschon@mst.edu
Web:
civil.mst.edu
Civil, Architectural and
Environmental Engineering
Rachel Johnson
Graduate Student Support Specialist
Phone: 573-341-4470
Email:
rfjohnson@mst.edu