Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/digital-supply-chain-management/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Digital Supply Chain Management
Business and Information Technology
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
Success in today's marketplace requires that organizations deliver products and services that provide easily identified value for their customers. The digital supply chain management graduate certificate program draws on strengths within two departments to integrate source (strategic procurement and supply management), production (manufacturing and service operations), and delivery processes (demand fulfillment), with a focus on the use of information technologies as the critical enabler of supply chain efficiencies and responsiveness.
This graduate certificate will give students the tools and ideas that help shape and define the various components of value creation. Students gain knowledge and skills in the full spectrum of supply chain activities: supplier relationships, purchasing management, operations and inventory management, logistics and transportation, quality management, and information technology.
This is a professional development program focused on building competency across the foundations of supply chain management. Students attain new skill sets to help them manage and enhance the value of today's complex supply chains.
Admission requirements
The graduate certificate program is open to all individuals holding a bachelor's, master's or doctorate degree in areas such as business, social sciences, technology, engineering, or related disciplines.
In order to receive a graduate certificate, the student must earn
cumulative
GPA
≥
3.0 in the certificate courses taken. Students admitted only to the certificate program will have non-degree graduate status but will earn graduate credit for the courses they complete. The courses in the certificate program are offered such that students can complete the program in a timely manner.
If the four-course sequence approved by the graduate advisor is completed with a grade of B or better in each of the courses taken, the student will, upon application, be admitted to the master of business administration or to the master of science in information science and technology. The certificate courses taken by a student admitted to the program will count toward the MBA program or the M.S. in information science and technology degree program.
Once admitted to the certificate program, a student will be given three years to complete the program as long as a B or better average is maintained in the courses taken.
Distance application requirements
Students applying for a graduate certificate must submit the following:
Completed Application
Statement of Purpose
Transcripts
Online Application
When you start a new application, select "Graduate Online/Distance" and then select the certificate program.
Don't forget to list your current employer and company location on the application.
Statement of purpose should be 2-3 paragraphs explaining why you are applying for this program.
Statement is to be submitted electronically on the
online application
; you'll copy and paste it into the provided text box.
Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for an admit decision.
Upload your transcripts on the
online application
under your "Institutional Data." If you previously attended S&T, you must upload your transcript. An unofficial transcript can be requested through Joe’SS.
How to Request Unofficial Transcripts
(pdf)
PDF scans are preferred.
The university requires official transcripts from all schools attended before a student may register for a second semester.
In order for a transcript to be counted as official it must be sent directly from the school to S&T, it cannot come from a student.
Official transcripts should be mailed to Global Learning:
Missouri University of Science and Technology
Office of Global Learning
G8 Norwood Hall, 320 West 12th Street
Rolla, MO 65409
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
Related Degrees
This graduate certificate may act as a pathway to the following master’s programs:
Business Administration
(MBA)
Information Science and Technology
()
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby, Associate Director for Online Admissions
Phone: 573-341-6903
Email:
stgrad@mst.edu
Business and Information
Science and Technology
Business and Information Science and Technology
101 Fulton Hall
301 W. 14th St.
Rolla, MO 65409
Phone: 573-341-4776
Email:
bit@mst.edu
Web:
bit.mst.edu