Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/manufacturing-systems/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Manufacturing Systems
Manufacturing Engineering
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
Missouri University of Science and Technology offers a graduate certificate in manufacturing systems for working professionals who want to stay ahead of rapidly changing technology. Areas of study include materials and manufacturing processes, process assembly and product engineering, manufacturing competitiveness and manufacturing systems design.
The graduate certificate program consists of four courses from existing graduate-level courses. While the students admitted to the certificate program will have non-matriculated status, if they complete the four course sequence with a grade of B or better in each of the courses taken, they will be admitted to the master's degree program, if they so choose. The certificate credits taken by students admitted to the will count toward their master's degrees.
Admission requirements
The admission decision will be made based upon prior degree(s) obtained by the student and the student’s performance in courses fundamental to the certificate, the student’s work experience, and any other information provided by the student. If the student does not have all of the prerequisite courses necessary to take the courses in the certificate program, the student will be allowed to take "bridge" courses at either the graduate or undergraduate level to prepare for the formal certificate courses. Once admitted into the certificate program, the student will be given three years to complete the program so long as the student maintains a grade point average of 3.0 or better in the courses taken.
In order to receive a graduate certificate, a student must have an average GPA 3.0 or better in the core courses.
Distance application requirements
Students applying for a graduate certificate must submit the following:
Completed Application
Statement of Purpose
Transcripts
Online Application
When you start a new application, select "Graduate Online/Distance" and then select the certificate program.
Don't forget to list your current employer and company location on the application.
Statement of purpose should be 2-3 paragraphs explaining why you are applying for this program.
Statement is to be submitted electronically on the
online application
; you'll copy and paste it into the provided text box.
Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for an admit decision.
Upload your transcripts on the
online application
under your "Institutional Data." If you previously attended S&T, you must upload your transcript. An unofficial transcript can be requested through Joe’SS.
How to Request Unofficial Transcripts
(pdf)
PDF scans are preferred.
The university requires official transcripts from all schools attended before a student may register for a second semester.
In order for a transcript to be counted as official it must be sent directly from the school to S&T, it cannot come from a student.
Official transcripts should be mailed to Global Learning:
Missouri University of Science and Technology
Office of Global Learning
G8 Norwood Hall, 320 West 12th Street
Rolla, MO 65409
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
Related Degrees
This graduate certificate may act as a pathway to the following master’s programs:
Manufacturing Engineering
(MS/ME)
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Program structure
This program is 100% online: no campus visits required.
Courses are semester-based. Students typically take one or two classes per semester and finish the program in one year.
Delivery
100% online
Calendar system
Semester-based
Typical program length
1–2 years
Typical course load
1–2 courses a semester
Courses are offered asynchronously, meaning they do not have regular meetings. They may consist of various media and content — such as online discussions, videos, quizzes and recordings — that students review and complete at the time of their choice.
Required Courses – 12 credit hours
The flowing are the courses offered in the program. Courses are 3 credit hours each, unless stated otherwise. The University reserves the right to change or cancel courses as needed. See here for
course descriptions
.
COURSE I – MATERIALS AND MANUFACTURING PROCESSES
(SELECT ONE OF THE FOLLOWING) – 3 credit hours
MECH ENG 5220 Advanced Mechanics of Materials
MECH ENG 5236 Fracture Mechanics
MECH ENG 5282 Introduction to Composite Materials & Structures
MECH ENG 6659 Advanced Topics in Design and Manufacturing
COURSE II – PROCESS, ASSEMBLY AND PRODUCT ENGINEERING
(SELECT ONE OF THE FOLLOWING)
– 3 credit hours
ENG MGT 5515/​MECH ENG 5757 Integrated Product and Process Design
MECH ENG 5708 Rapid Product Design and Optimization
MECH ENG 5763 Computer Aided Design: Theory and Practice
COURSE III – MANUFACTURING COMPETITIVENESS
(SELECT ONE OF THE FOLLOWING)
– 3 credit hours
ENG MGT 5710 Six Sigma
ENG MGT 5613 Value Analysis
ENG MGT 5615 Production Planning and Scheduling
ENG MGT 5714 Statistical Process Control
ENG MGT 6611 Lean Systems
AERO ENG 5760 Probabilistic Engineering Design
ERP 5110 Enterprise Resource Planning Systems Design and Implementation
COURSE IV – MANUFACTURING SYSTEMS DESIGN
(SELECT ONE OF THE FOLLOWING) – 3 credit hours
ENG MGT 5314
MECH ENG 5478 Mechatronics
MECH ENG 5655 Manufacturing Equipment Automation
MECH ENG 5656 Design for Manufacture
Accreditation
Missouri University of Science & Technology is accredited by the
Higher Learning Commission
, one of six regional institutional accreditors in the United States.
Nondegree-seeking enrollment
Prior to acceptance into the program, you may enroll in up to 6 credit hours as a nondegree-seeking (in some cases, post-baccalaureate) student. Enrollment does not guarantee acceptance. Learn more about
nondegree-seeking university student admissions
.
State authorization
States require that Missouri University of Science and Technology be authorized to deliver university-level distance/online education to their residents. Each state handles this process differently.
Please see our
state authorization page
for more information.
Authorized
Students residing in all states are eligible to enroll in this program.
Internships
Internships are available and encouraged to explore real-life applications of teacher leadership. Learn more about offerings on
S&T's Career Opportunities page
.
Faculty
Our academic leaders are experts in their disciplines who bring extensive experience in higher education, industry, and departmental management. Learn more about
S&T's Manufacturing Engineering Faculty
which are part of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby
Associate Director for Online Admissions
Phone: 573-341-6903
Email:
stgrad@mst.edu
Manufacturing Engineering
Frank Liou, PhD
Bytnar Professor and Director of Manufacturing Engineering Program
Phone: 573-341-4603
Email:
liou@mst.edu