Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-degrees/explosives-engineering/

Real Degrees for Working Professionals
Master of Science in Explosives Engineering
Develop sophisticated skills in the integration of explosives technology into complex systems for a wide range of applications. You'll study theoretical and practical approaches of explosive engineering, learn analysis and design of explosives-related systems, and discover natural and built structure effects.
Thesis and non-thesis options available. Both options require 30 credit hours of coursework to complete.
The MS degree with thesis requires the completion of 24 hours of graduate coursework and six hours of research (Exp Eng 6099) and the successful completion and defense of a research thesis. For the MS degree non-thesis option, the six hours of research are replaced by two additional explosive courses (an industry project or graduate co-operative experince can count as one of these two additional courses). Nine hours of 6000-level lecture classes are required.
A core of four courses is required of all students and a module of allied courses in departments outside of explosives engineering is encouraged.
Four of the following courses are required of all MS students in Explosives Engineering:
EXP ENG 5612/MIN ENG 5612 Principles of Explosives Engineering
EXP ENG
5622/MIN ENG 5622 Blasting Design and Technology
EXP ENG
5713 Demolition of Buildings and Structures
MIN ENG 5922 Tunneling and Underground Construction Techniques
EXP ENG
6312 Scientific Instrumentation for Explosives Testing and Blasting
EXP ENG
6412 Environmental Controls for Blasting
There is no formal residency requirement. However, students enrolled in courses with a laboratory component may be required to complete a three-day to one-week laboratory session at Missouri S&T, at a time agreed to with the course instructor.
Admission Requirements
A bachelor of science in engineering, technology or a physical science is required.
Undergraduate GPA ≥ 3.0
International requirement: TOEFL ≥ 80 or IELTS
≥ 6.5, or
satisfactory completion of an approved English language Institute program.
All participants in explosives courses must submit to a security background check.
Doctorate Degree in Explosives Engineering
Please contact the academic department for details on the distance doctorate program. Email
mining@mst.edu
or call 573-341-4753.
Graduate Certificates
Your Pathway to a Graduate Degree
Start earning college credit toward a graduate degree. The GRE is not required to enter a certificate program, and credit earned may be applied toward your master’s degree.*
Explosives Engineering Graduate Certificate Programs
Aggregates Management
Explosives Engineering
Explosives Technology
Mine Reclaimation
Mining Engineering
Mining Project Evaluation
Sustainability in Mining
*restrictions may apply
Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply. Check with the academic department for program specific details and requirements.
Learn more about the certificate to master's program
.
Accreditation
Missouri University of Science & Technology is accredited by the
Higher Learning Commission
, one of six regional institutional accreditors in the United States.
Nondegree-seeking enrollment
Prior to acceptance into the program, you may enroll in up to 6 credit hours as a nondegree-seeking (in some cases, post-baccalaureate) student. Enrollment does not guarantee acceptance. Learn more about
nondegree-seeking university student admissions
.
Licensure and disclosures
If you live outside of Missouri and are thinking about enrolling in a program that leads to professional licensure, the University of Missouri System strongly recommends that you check with the relevant licensing board in your state or the state where you plan to work. This will help you obtain the most current information about state licensure requirements before you enroll in any academic program. While Missouri University of Science & Technology strives to provide current licensure information, it's important to note that licensure regulations are subject to change.
For more details, please visit our
licensure and disclosure page
.
State authorization
States require that Missouri University of Science and Technology be authorized to deliver university-level distance/online education to their residents.
The process for authorization varies by state
.
For more details, please visit our
state authorization page
.
Authorized
Students residing in all states are eligible to enroll in this program.
Internships
Internships are encouraged for explore real-life applications of teacher leadership. Find more about available opportunities on
S&T's Career Opportunities
page.
Faculty
Our academic leaders are experts in their respective disciplines and bring extensive experience in higher education, industry, and departmental management. Learn more about the
Mining and Explosives Engineering Faculty
at S&T.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby
Associate Director for Online Admissions
573-341-6903  |
stgrad@mst.edu
Mining and Explosives Engineering
Kathleen German
Administrative Assistant
573-341-4753  |
kg2kv@mst.edu
Department Website:
mee.mst.edu