Source: https://ese.mst.edu/academic-programs/geology-and-geophysics/

For over a century, the geology and geophysics program at Missouri S&T has provided students with a great education, hands-on experiences, and opportunities for cutting-edge research all over the world.
Undergraduate Degree
Undergraduate Degree
Graduate Degrees
Graduate Degrees
$4,000 Geology and Geophysics Scholarship
$4,000 Geology and Geophysics Scholarship
A Fall 2025 scholarship is available for first-time students and undergraduate initial transfer students. 
Click to email Donna Arthur for more information.
Virtual Presentations
Virtual Presentations
Want to find out more about Geology and Geophysics at Missouri S&T? Register for one of our virtual presentations to learn more and ask questions.
Solving For Earth's Resources
Your Career in Geology and Geophysics
For geologists and geophysicists, the complexity of our Earth is an opportunity for constant discovery. Geologists study everything from the origin and evolution of the Earth, to environmental issues that affect the world around us. As a geoscientist, you might explore oil and natural gas resources in the deep ocean, identify adequate sources of water and other natural resources for villages around the world, or help to predict when and where the next earthquake, volcanic explosion or tsunami may happen.
Career as a geologist or geophysicist
S&T graduates in geology and geophysics work for oil, mining and environmental companies, higher education institutions, and state and federal government agencies, such as the U.S. Geological Survey, Missouri Department of Natural Resources and NASA. They travel and work all over the world and tend to have tremendous job satisfaction.
For more information about jobs
Visit
Career Opportunities and Employer Relations
to learn more about our biannual Career Fair.
Research
The unique structure of our department benefits our research efforts and provides students with unique opportunities for collaboration and multi-disciplinary understanding.
Research in geology and geophysics focuses on the understanding and characterization of the Earth's subsurface.
Research is offered in areas of interest to the mining, petroleum, and environmental consulting and regulatory industries. Fundamental research in this area often involves the development of new technologies and modeling of natural processes.
The geology and geophysics program specializes in the following research:
Earth Systems
Geophysics and Earth Deformation Processes
Petroleum and Mining Systems and Applications
Water
Learn more about each research area
Follow Earth Sciences and Engineering
Facebook
Twitter
Linked In
Youtube
Instagram