Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/engineering-mechanics/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Engineering Mechanics
Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
This certificate program allows working professionals to keep current with the rapid pace of technological changes in the area of engineering mechanics and to earn a graduate certificate in their field of interest. Furthermore, this program provides students with the opportunity to improve their academic record for possible admission to the MS degree program in mechanical or aerospace engineering. All courses are available over the Internet.
Topics covered include continuum mechanics, solid mechanics, stability, fracture mechanics, composites, fatigue analysis, plates, shells and laminated composites.
Admission requirements
This graduate certificate program is open to all individuals holding a bachelor’s degree in an appropriate engineering discipline with GPA
≥ 2.75,
and who have a minimum of two years of professional experience, or are currently accepted into a graduate degree program in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering.
The certificate program consists of four courses. In order to receive a graduate certificate, you must earn a cumulative GPA ≥ 3.0 in the four certificate courses taken.
Students admitted to the certificate program will have non-degree graduate status, but will earn graduate credit for the courses they complete.
Once admitted to the certificate program, you will have three years to complete the certificate, as long as you maintain a B average in the courses taken.
Distance application requirements
Students applying for a graduate certificate must submit the following:
Completed Application
Statement of Purpose
Transcripts
Online Application
When you start a new application, select "Graduate Online/Distance" and then select the certificate program.
Don't forget to list your current employer and company location on the application.
Statement of purpose should be 2-3 paragraphs explaining why you are applying for this program.
Statement is to be submitted electronically on the
online application
; you'll copy and paste it into the provided text box.
Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for an admit decision.
Upload your transcripts on the
online application
under your "Institutional Data." If you previously attended S&T, you must upload your transcript. An unofficial transcript can be requested through Joe’SS.
How to Request Unofficial Transcripts
(pdf)
PDF scans are preferred.
The university requires official transcripts from all schools attended before a student may register for a second semester.
In order for a transcript to be counted as official it must be sent directly from the school to S&T, it cannot come from a student.
Official transcripts should be mailed to Global Learning:
Missouri University of Science and Technology
Office of Global Learning
G8 Norwood Hall, 320 West 12th Street
Rolla, MO 65409
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
Related Degrees
This graduate certificate may act as a pathway to the following master’s programs:
Aerospace Engineering
(MS)
Mechanical Engineering
(MS)
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby, Associate Director for Online Admissions
Phone: 573-341-6903
Email:
stgrad@mst.edu
Mechanical and
Aerospace Engineering
Dr. Xiaodong Yang
Associate Professor
227 Toomey Hall
400 W. 13th St.
Rolla, MO 65409-0050
Phone: 573-341-6273
Email:
yangxia@mst.edu
Web:
mae.mst.edu