Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/modeling-simulation-decision-systems/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Modeling and Simulation for Decision Systems
Engineering Management and Systems Engineering
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
You’re here because you’re a leader. You already have an innate grasp of complex systems solutions—the big-picture insight that sets you apart. Now, you need the credentials that help you apply your wisdom in complex management settings. If you’re ready to advance your career with a sophisticated knowledge of engineering management for businesses or production facilities, Missouri University of Science and Technology’s graduate certificate program in modeling and simulation for decision systems may be a perfect fit.
This 100% online program consists of 12 credit hours in four rigorous courses that you can complete in two years or less. It is especially well suited to those already working in technical professions, including active-duty and returning military. Course work helps students
obtain skills to manage today's workforce and optimize value added to organizations
. Upon completion, you will have expertise in modeling and simulation for decision systems that will prepare you for key management roles in a variety of industries.
Missouri S&T’s master’s of systems engineering program is recognized by the
American Society of Engineering Management (ASEM)
and the
International Council on Systems Engineering (INCOSE)
.
Admission requirements
The certificate program is open to all persons holding a bachelor's, master's or doctorate degree in engineering or a physical science and who have a minimum of one year of professional employment experience, or are currently accepted into a graduate degree program at Missouri S&T.
Bachelor's degree in engineering or a physical science
Undergraduate courses: Calculus Series (I,II,III), Differential Equations, Statistics, Physics or Chemistry, Engineering Economy
Undergraduate GPA
≥
2.75 cumulative
TOEFL: All international applicants must submit a current TOEFL score, regardless of prior academic experience or place of study. Regular status: 580/237/92
The certificate program consists of four courses. In order to receive a graduate certificate, you must earn a cumulative GPA ≥ 3.0 in the four certificate courses taken.
Students admitted to the certificate program will have non-degree graduate status, but will earn graduate credit for the courses they complete.
Once admitted to the certificate program, you will have three years to complete the certificate, as long as you maintain a B average in the courses taken.
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
Related Degrees
This graduate certificate may act as a pathway to the following master’s programs:
Engineering Management
(MS)
Systems Engineering
(MS)
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Program structure
This program is 100% online: no campus visits required.
Courses are semester-based. Students typically take one or two classes per semester and finish the program in one year.
Delivery
100% online
Calendar system
Semester-based
Typical program length
1–2 years
Typical course load
1–2 courses a semester
Courses are offered asynchronously, meaning they do not have regular meetings. They may consist of various media and content — such as online discussions, videos, quizzes and recordings — that students review and complete at the time of their choice.
Required Core Courses – 12 credit hours
The flowing are the courses offered in the program. Courses are 3 credit hours each, unless stated otherwise. The University reserves the right to change or cancel courses as needed.
ENG MGT 5110 Managerial Decision Making
ENG MGT 6310 Human Systems Integration
ENG MGT 6411 Advanced Topics in Simulation Modeling
ENG MGT 6415 Optimization Under Uncertainty
Accreditation
Missouri University of Science & Technology is accredited by the
Higher Learning Commission
, one of six regional institutional accreditors in the United States.
Nondegree-seeking enrollment
Prior to acceptance into the program, you may enroll in up to 6 credit hours as a nondegree-seeking (in some cases, post-baccalaureate) student. Enrollment does not guarantee acceptance. Learn more about
nondegree-seeking university student admissions
.
Licensure and disclosures
If you live outside of Missouri and are thinking about enrolling in a program that leads to professional licensure, the University of Missouri System strongly recommends that you check with the relevant licensing board in your state or the state where you plan to work. This will help you obtain the most current information about state licensure requirements before you enroll in any academic program. While Missouri University of Science & Technology strives to provide current licensure information, it's important to note that licensure regulations are subject to change.
For more details, please visit our
licensure and disclosure page
.
State authorization
States require that Missouri University of Science and Technology be authorized to deliver university-level distance/online education to their residents.
The process for authorization varies by state
.
For more details, please visit our
state authorization page
.
Authorized
Students residing in all states are eligible to enroll in this program.
Internships
Internships are encouraged for explore real-life applications of teacher leadership. Find more about available opportunities on
S&T's Career Opportunities
page.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby
Associate Director for Online Admissions
573-341-6903  |
stgrad@mst.edu
Engineering Management and Systems Engineering
573-341-4572  |
emgt@mst.edu
Toll Free: 1-800-441-5218
Department Website:
emse.mst.edu