Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/electric-power-systems-engineering/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Electric Power Systems Engineering
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
This graduate certificate program is designed to provide specialized graduate-level education for working professionals in the area of electric power systems engineering.
Admission requirements
Bachelor's degree in any field of engineering
Undergraduate GPA of 3.0 or better
The student must take four designated courses. In order to receive a graduate certificate, the student must have an average graduate grade point average of 3.0 or better in the certificate courses taken. Students admitted to the certificate program will have non-degree graduate status; however, if they complete the four-course sequence with a grade of B or better in each of the courses taken, they will be admitted to the master's degree program in electrical or computer engineering, if they apply. The certificate courses taken by students will count toward their master's degrees. Students who do not have all of the prerequisite courses necessary to take the courses in the certificate program will be allowed to take "bridge" courses at either the graduate or undergraduate level to prepare for the formal certificate courses.
Once admitted to the program, a student will be given three years to complete the program so long a B average is maintained in the courses taken.
Distance application requirements
Please find all required application documents here.
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
Related Degrees
This graduate certificate may act as a pathway to the following master’s programs:
Electrical Engineering
(MS)
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby, Associate Director for Online Admissions
Phone: 573-341-6903
Email:
stgrad@mst.edu
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Dr. Sahra Sedigh Sarvestani
Associate Professor
135 Emerson Electric Co. Hall
Rolla, MO 65409
Phone: 573-341-7505
Fax: 573-341-4532
Email:
sedighs@mst.edu
Web:
ece.mst.edu