Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-degrees/manufacturing-engineering/

Real Degrees for Working Professionals
Manufacturing Engineering (ME)
Explore materials and manufacturing processes, assembly and product engineering, and research how to design manufacturing systems that are competitive and efficient.
This is an interdisciplinary program with an emphasis on hands-on learning.  It is offered as a master of engineering degree option.
The degree program consist of a total of 30 hours of coursework, including 12 hours of core courses.
The master of engineering  is a practice-oriented, non-thesis degree program and requires:
12 credit hours from manufacturing core areas
6 credit hours of 6000-level courses in manufacturing
3 credit hours of approved mathematics/computer science, or any suggested manufacturing courses
6 credit hours of graduate courses in manufacturing
3 credit hours of work related to the practice-oriented project
The practice-oriented project is defined by the student and advisor. At the end of the project, the student should demonstrate the proficiency of operating certain manufacturing processes, and the capability to improve the process.
Admission Requirements
Bachelor’s degree in related field
Undergraduate GPA ≥ 3.0
GRE V+Q ≥ 302, GRE Q ≥ 157, and GRE WR
≥
3.5
International requirement: TOEFL ≥ 80 or IELTS
≥ 6.5,
or satisfactory completion of an approved English language Institute program.
Graduate Certificates
Your Pathway to a Graduate Degree
Start earning college credit toward a graduate degree. The GRE is not required to enter a certificate program, and credit earned may be applied toward your master’s degree.*
Graduate Certificate Programs
CAD/CAM and Rapid Product Realization
Manufacturing Systems
*restrictions may apply
Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply. Check with the academic department for program specific details and requirements.
Learn more about the certificate to master's program
.
Accreditation
Missouri University of Science & Technology is accredited by the
Higher Learning Commission
, one of six regional institutional accreditors in the United States.
Nondegree-seeking enrollment
Prior to acceptance into the program, you may enroll in up to 6 credit hours as a nondegree-seeking (in some cases, post-baccalaureate) student. Enrollment does not guarantee acceptance. Learn more about
nondegree-seeking university student admissions
.
Licensure and disclosures
If you live outside of Missouri and are thinking about enrolling in a program that leads to professional licensure, the University of Missouri System strongly recommends that you check with the relevant licensing board in your state or the state where you plan to work. This will help you obtain the most current information about state licensure requirements before you enroll in any academic program. While Missouri University of Science & Technology strives to provide current licensure information, it's important to note that licensure regulations are subject to change.
For more details, please visit our
licensure and disclosure page
.
State authorization
States require that Missouri University of Science and Technology be authorized to deliver university-level distance/online education to their residents.
The process for authorization varies by state
.
For more details, please visit our
state authorization page
.
Authorized
Students residing in all states are eligible to enroll in this program.
Internships
Internships are encouraged for explore real-life applications of teacher leadership. Find more about available opportunities on
S&T's Career Opportunities
page.
Faculty
Our academic leaders are experts in their respective disciplines and bring extensive experience in higher education, industry, and departmental management. Learn more about the
Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Faculty
at S&T.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby
Associate Director for Online Admissions
573-341-6903  |
stgrad@mst.edu
Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Frank Liou, PhD
Founder and Director of the Manufacturing Engineering Program,
Director of the Intelligent Systems Center, and
Bytnar Product Innovation and Creativity Professor
573-341-4603  |
liou@mst.edu
Department Website:
mfge.mst.edu