Source: https://bit.mst.edu/information-science-technology/graduate/

Information Science and Technology
Master's Degree
Information technology continues to transform every aspect of our economy and society. The rapid spread of technology has generated the need for highly trained professionals to implement and maintain information systems to support business success. Our master of science in information science and technology (M.S. IST) will teach you how to design, develop and apply information systems in organizations and businesses.
Research will be integrated into your classroom experience, with specially equipped labs and classrooms—including the
Laboratory for Information Technology Evaluation
—available to support research studies in areas such as human-computer interaction and enterprise resource planning.
You can choose to take your classes in-person on the Missouri S&T campus or online from anywhere in the country using our state-of-the-art virtual classrooms. Our online graduate degree programs are considered among the best in the country, according to
U.S. News and World Report
. This degree program can be completed in 12 to 24 months if taken full-time, or in 24 to 36 months if taken part-time.
Missouri S&T is one of only 5% of business schools in the world to meet this high-quality standard.
Degree curriculum
Our M.S. IST degree requires 30 graduate credit hours and is available in
two options—with or without a thesis
. The thesis option has three components:
core courses (12 credits)
,
electives (12 credits)
and
research (6 credits)
. The non-thesis option has two components:
core courses (12 credits)
and
electives (18 credits)
. All courses taken for the M.S. IST program must be at the 5000-level or above.
The four required core courses are designed to ensure that all students study the four information systems perspectives of networks and web design, human perception, application implementation, and organizational systems.
IS&T 5885 Human-Computer Interaction and User Experience
IS&T 6251 Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Economic Development
IS&T 6261 Advanced Information Systems Project Management
IS&T 6336 Internet Computing and the Internet of Things
The M.S. IST electives are to be selected in consultation with your advisor from the following subject areas:
business
,
enterprise resource planning
,
finance
,
information science and technology
or
marketing
. Click on a subject to see a complete list of courses under that subject area. Up to six credit hours may instead be taken outside of the department of business and information technology.
Most BIT graduate courses are offered once per year. Contact the department for up-to-date information on present course offering plans.
Graduate Certificates
Many M.S. IST students opt to complete a graduate certificate to fulfill some of the electives. Our department offers over a dozen graduate certificates in many popular, high-demand fields. Each certificate is comprised of four courses selected to fit a specific area of emphasis. This option allows you to give your master's degree a documented focus.
explore graduate certificates
Admissions assistance
Application Requirements
Use this admissions checklist to review our admissions requirements.
International Application Requirements
This checklist outlines our admission requirements for international students.
Apply Now
Apply to Missouri S&T using the online application system.
Cost Estimates
See what makes Missouri S&T one of America's top 10 "best value" public universities.
Graduate Funding Opportunities
We have several funding opportunities to make your degree an excellent return on investment.
Accelerated Grad Program
Accelerated Graduate Degree Programs
If you're a current S&T undergraduate student, you can save time and money on your master's degree.
Catalog Information
Browse this degree program in the official university course catalog.
Contact Us
Contact Us
We are happy to answer any additional questions you have.
Follow Business and Information Technology
Facebook
Linked In