Source: https://physics.mst.edu/academicprograms/undergraduateprograms/

Undergraduate programs
The physics department offers a
Bachelor of Science
, as well as a minor in physics.
Bachelor of Science
This degree lays the foundation to begin your career or to continue your education for a higher degree in graduate school in physics or another field, such as law or medicine.
The program has a high fraction of electives so that in consultation with your advisor, you can tailor a special program that suits your needs. This makes it easy to minor in computer science, mathematics or another field.
For students starting Fall 2022 or later:
Physics Curriculum FS 2022
For students who started before Fall 2022:
Physics Curriculum 2020
Experiential Learning
All undergraduate students graduating from Missouri S&T are required to have an experiential learning activity as part of their degree requirement
List of Physics Experiential Learning Activities
Experiential Learning Form
Grad Track Pathway
In this accelerated program, an undergraduate student takes graduate courses as part of the Physics BS degree which then also count towards the Physics MS degree. Up to nine hours of physics graduate lecture courses at the 5000 or 6000 level taken during undergraduate may be transferred to the Physics MS program.
Admissions requirements:
(1) Minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0, minimum cumulative GPA of 3.5 in Physics courses, (2) Application letter outlining the student’s objectives in entering this program. (3) A recommendation letter from a Physics faculty member recommending the student for this program.
Contact the Director of Graduate Admission, Dr. Alexey Yamilov (
yamilov@mst.edu
).
Minor
This minor is a flexible program with the goal of increasing your breadth and competency in modern or classical physics. As a science student pursuing a physics minor, you might be interested in a deeper understanding of fundamental physical processes. As an engineering student who intends to work in research or advanced development, you can use a physics minor to acquire a thorough knowledge of classical and quantum optics or laser processes. The minor consists of the following classes:
The introductory physics sequence (Physics 1135/2135)
One course in modern physics (Physics 2305)
12 additional credit hours of physics courses at the 2000 level or above.
The program will be designed to conform to your individual interests and needs.
Advisors
For more information please contact undergraduate advisors
Dr. Agnes Vojta
or
Dr. Jim Musser
.
Follow Physics
Facebook
Linked In