Source: https://bit.mst.edu/business-management/mba-program/

Master of Business Administration
The Missouri S&T MBA program combines core business knowledge with the latest information technology trends, all in an environment of team based project work, business plan development, live simulations, and employer networking. In addition to influential presentation skills and advanced problem solving competencies, you will also develop advanced strategic thinking skills that are required of the leaders of today and tomorrow.
You will learn the latest management best practices, develop business and leadership skills to succeed in the global market, discuss current business issues with faculty members who are experts in their fields and work with fellow students who are business leaders and management executives from different nations and cultures.
You can choose to take your classes in-person on the Missouri S&T campus or online from anywhere in the country using our state-of-the-art virtual classrooms. Our online graduate degree programs are considered among the best in the country, according to
U.S. News and World Report
. This degree program can be completed in 18 to 24 months if taken full-time, or in 24 to 36 months if taken part-time.
Missouri S&T is one of only 5% of business schools in the world to meet this high-quality
standard.
Degree curriculum
Our MBA degree requires a total of 36 graduate credit hours. The degree has two components:
core courses (21 credits)
and
electives (15 credits)
. All courses taken for the MBA must be at the 5000-level or above.
The following seven core courses are required of all MBA students:
BUS 6121 Leadership
BUS 6622 International Marketing
BUS 6723 Artificial Intelligence, Robotics, and Digital Transformation
(co-listed with
IS&T 6723
)
BUS 6224 Managerial Accounting and Control
BUS 6425 Supply Chain and Project Management
BUS 6426 Integration of Business Areas
BUS 6827 Managerial Finance
The MBA electives are to be selected in consultation with your advisor from the following subject areas:
business
,
enterprise resource planning
,
finance
,
information science and technology
or
marketing
. Click on a subject to see a complete list of courses under that subject area. Up to six credit hours may instead be taken outside of the department of business and information technology.
Most BIT graduate courses are offered once per year. Contact the department for up-to-date information on present course offering plans.
Graduate Certificates
Many MBA students opt to complete a graduate certificate to fulfill some of the electives. Our department offers over a dozen graduate certificates in many popular, high-demand fields. Each certificate is comprised of four courses selected to fit a specific area of emphasis. This option allows you to give your MBA a documented focus.
explore graduate certificates
Admissions assistance
Application Requirements
Use this admissions checklist to review our admission requirements.
International Application Requirements
This checklist outlines our admission requirements for international students.
Apply Now
Apply to Missouri S&T using the online application system.
Cost Estimates
See what makes Missouri S&T one of America's top 10 "best value" public universities.
Graduate Funding Opportunities
We have several funding opportunities to make your degree an excellent return on investment.
Accelerated Grad Program
Accelerated Graduate Degree Programs
If you're a current S&T undergraduate student, you can save time and money on your master's degree.
Catalog Information
Browse this degree program in the official university course catalog.
Contact Us
Contact Us
We are happy to answer any additional questions you have.
Follow Business and Information Technology
Facebook
Linked In