Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/automation-engineering-plc/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Automation Engineering and PLC
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
The graduate certificate in automation engineering and PLC  is a cross-disciplinary program between chemical engineering, electrical engineering, and mechanical engineering.
Curriculum:
Required courses:
CHEM ENG 5190/ELEC ENG 5350 Plantwide Process Control
ELEC ENG
5340 Advanced PLC
Choose two courses from the following:
CHEM ENG
5140 Intermediate Chemical Process Safety
ELEC ENG
5345 PLC Motion Control
ELEC ENG
5870/MECH ENG 5478 Mechatronics
ELEC ENG
5449 Robotic Manipulators and Mechanism
ELEC ENG
5655 Manufacturing Equipment Automation
Admission requirements
This graduate certificate is open to all persons holding a bachelor's degree in any field of engineering from an ABET-accredited undergraduate program, or a degree in a closely related technical field such as physics or mathematics.  Minimum undergraduate GPA ≥ 2.5 is required.
Students who do not have all of the prerequisite courses necessary to take the courses in the certificate program will be allowed to take "bridge" courses at either the graduate or undergraduate level to prepare for the formal certificate.
Once admitted to the program, the student must take four designated courses. In order to receive a graduate certificate, the student must have an average GPA of ≥ 3.0 in the certificate courses taken.
Students admitted to the certificate program will have non-degree graduate status and be given three years to complete the certificate program.
When the graduate certificate is successfully completed, the student can apply for admission to the master's degree program in
chemical engineering, electrical engineering, or mechanical engineering, provided that all other program prerequisites and admission requirements are met. The credit earned in the graduate certificate program will count toward the master's degree.
Distance application requirements
Students applying for a graduate certificate must submit the following:
Completed Application
Statement of Purpose
Transcripts
Online Application
When you start a new application, select "Graduate Online/Distance" and then select the certificate program.
Don't forget to list your current employer and company location on the application.
Statement of purpose should be 2-3 paragraphs explaining why you are applying for this program.
Statement is to be submitted electronically on the
online application
; you'll copy and paste it into the provided text box.
Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for an admit decision.
Upload your transcripts on the
online application
under your "Institutional Data." If you previously attended S&T, you must upload your transcript. An unofficial transcript can be requested through Joe’SS.
How to Request Unofficial Transcripts
(pdf)
PDF scans are preferred.
The university requires official transcripts from all schools attended before a student may register for a second semester.
In order for a transcript to be counted as official it must be sent directly from the school to S&T, it cannot come from a student.
Official transcripts should be mailed to Global Learning:
Missouri University of Science and Technology
Office of Global Learning
G8 Norwood Hall, 320 West 12th Street
Rolla, MO 65409
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
Related Degrees
This graduate certificate may act as a pathway to the following master’s programs:
Electrical Engineering
(MS)
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby, Associate Director for Online Admissions
Phone: 573-341-6903
Email:
stgrad@mst.edu
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Dr. Sahra Sedigh Sarvestani
Associate Professor and Distance Learning Coordinator
135 Emerson Electric Co. Hall
Rolla, MO 65409
Phone: 573-341-7505
Fax: 573-341-4532
Email:
sedighs@mst.edu
Web:
ece.mst.edu