Source: https://mse.mst.edu/academic-programs/bachelorsdegreeinsemiconductorengineering/

Now Accepting Fall 2025 Applications
First-time college students or dual-degree seeking students with a planned graduation date of Spring 2029 or later are eligible to apply.
Contact Dr. David Lipke
, Associate Professor and Associate Chair for Academic Affairs (MSE Dept.), for questions or eligibility confirmation.
Earn a Bachelor's Degree in Semiconductor Engineering
The interdisciplinary semiconductor engineering program integrates fundamental principles of general engineering with specialized domain knowledge in materials science and engineering (MSE), electrical and computer engineering (ECE), and chemical engineering (ChE).
The program will prepare students for career paths across a wide variety of technological fields ranging from microelectronics and nanotechnology (with applications for energy, healthcare, intelligent systems, and cybersecurity) to critical materials supply chain. The program will also prepare students to pursue advanced degrees in related specialized fields such as semiconductor physics, optics, advanced electronics, and intelligent manufacturing.
Apply now
Want to Know More?
Get info on our program, scholarships, how to visit campus, admissions and more. Take the next step in solving for tomorrow!
Request info
Degree Information
Areas of Study
Modern semiconductor fabrication plants (aka fabs or foundries) feature some of the world’s most complex manufacturing environments with highly specialized equipment and intricate material workflows. Consequently, fab organizational charts feature engineering job titles requiring expertise from a multitude of disciplines, including electrical engineering, chemical engineering, materials science and engineering, mechanical engineering, industrial engineering, computer science, and engineering management.
Key skills, abilities, and competencies needed for all types of fab engineers include basic knowledge of economics, statistical process control, programming, critical analysis and problem-solving skills. Applied domain knowledge in areas ranging from semiconductor materials processing and characterization, process controls and process integration to solid-state micro/nano-electronic devices, circuit analysis and testing, to semiconductor physics, theory and simulation is critical to meet the needs of the current and future domestic semiconductor workforce.
Our Bachelor of Science degree in Semiconductor Engineering consists of 128 credit hours and features two emphasis areas: semiconductor device engineering and semiconductor process engineering. All Semiconductor Engineering degree program graduates will receive a common foundation in general engineering (math, physical sciences, computer science, engineering problem solving and design) to complement a materials science and engineering core focused on developing fundamental understandings of characterization and structure-processing-property relationships in semiconductor materials.
Students following the semiconductor device engineering track explore fundamental concepts of electrical and computer engineering with an emphasis in circuits, electronics, devices, electromagnetics and digital logic. Students following the semiconductor process engineering track explore fundamental concepts of chemical engineering with an emphasis in material and energy balances, rate processes, unit operations, reactor design and control, process economics, and safety.
Curriculum
Our bachelor of science degree in semiconductor engineering consists of 128 credit hours and features two emphasis areas: semiconductor device engineering and semiconductor process engineering. Provisional curricula for each emphasis area are shown below.
Process Emphasis
Device Emphasis
Experiential Learning
Experiential Learning (i.e., the process of learning by doing) is hallmark of all Missouri S&T engineering programs. All undergraduate students must graduate with a significant experiential learning experience. The Semiconductor Engineering curriculum features 23 laboratory credit hours, including 7 credit hours of hands-on laboratory experience in a state-of-the-art cleanroom now under construction and to be located in the Applied Research Center.
Your Career in Semiconductor Engineering
A career in semiconductor engineering, supported by a bachelor's degree in the interdisciplinary Semiconductor Engineering degree program, offers diverse opportunities in cutting-edge technological fields.
The program integrates core engineering principles with specialized knowledge from materials science, electrical and computer engineering, and chemical engineering. Graduates are well-prepared for roles in microelectronics, nanotechnology, energy systems, healthcare, intelligent systems, and to help address challenges in the critical materials supply chain.
Career Fields
Semiconductor Process Engineer
Intelligent Manufacturing Engineer
Semiconductor Packaging Engineer
Integrated Circuit Design Engineer
R&D Engineer
Failure Analysis Engineer
Quality and Reliability Engineer
Supply Chain and Operations Engineer
Research in Semiconductor Engineering
Research in semiconductor engineering is funded through external grants and contracts from federal agencies, including the National Science Foundation, the Department of Energy, agencies within the Department of Defense, and industry partnerships.
Specialized Areas of Research
Advanced packaging and heterogeneous integration
Semiconductor logic and memory devices
Semiconductor chip design and fabrication
Advanced ceramics for power electronics
Semiconductor substrate characterization
Quantum materials and heterostructures
Materials for solar cells and optoelectronics
Low dimensional materials and nanomaterials
See the Undergraduate Student Experience
Virtual Tour
Information for Future Students
Explore Other Programs
Financial Aid
Campus Living
Costs and Fees
Visit S&T
Admissions
Follow Materials Science and Engineering
Facebook
Linked In
Instagram