Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/business-analytics-data-science/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Business Analytics and Data Science
Business and Information Technology
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
Big data is an emerging phenomenon. Computing systems today are generating 15 petabytes of new information every day—eight times more than the combined information in all the libraries in the U.S.; about 80% of the data generated every day is textual and unstructured data.
The field of d
ata analytics identifys trends, creates predictive models for forecasting, and optimizes business processes for enhanced performance. Three main categories of analytics are:
Descriptive
- the use of data to find out what happened in the past.
Predictive
- the use of data to find out what could happen in the future.
Prescriptive
- the use of data to prescribe the best course of action for the future.
This graduate certificate is one of three graduate certificates offered by cooperating departments at Missouri S&T to fulfill the needs in big data. The other two graduate certificates are:
Big Data Management and Analytics
Big Data Management and Security
S&T's Business Analytics and Data Science graduate certificate program is ranked second in the nation in Value College’s Top 50 Best Value Online Big Data Graduate Programs of 2016.
Admission requirements
The graduate certificate program is open to all individuals holding a bachelor's, master's or doctorate degree in business, social sciences, sciences, technology, engineering, or related disciplines. In order to receive a graduate certificate, you must earn a cumulative GPA ≥ 3.0 in the four certificate courses taken.
Students admitted to the certificate program will have non-degree graduate status, but will earn graduate credit for the courses they complete.
Once admitted to the certificate program, you will have three years to complete the certificate, as long as you maintain a B average in the courses taken.
Distance application requirements
Students applying for a graduate certificate must submit the following:
Completed Application
Statement of Purpose
Transcripts
Online Application
When you start a new application, select "Graduate Online/Distance" and then select the certificate program.
Don't forget to list your current employer and company location on the application.
Statement of purpose should be 2-3 paragraphs explaining why you are applying for this program.
Statement is to be submitted electronically on the
online application
; you'll copy and paste it into the provided text box.
Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for an admit decision.
Upload your transcripts on the
online application
under your "Institutional Data." If you previously attended S&T, you must upload your transcript. An unofficial transcript can be requested through Joe’SS.
How to Request Unofficial Transcripts
(pdf)
PDF scans are preferred.
The university requires official transcripts from all schools attended before a student may register for a second semester.
In order for a transcript to be counted as official it must be sent directly from the school to S&T, it cannot come from a student.
Official transcripts should be mailed to:
Missouri University of Science and Technology
106 Parker Hall
300 W 13th Street
Rolla, Missouri USA 65409-1060
Official digital transcripts can be sent to
apply@mst.edu
. Please use the name,
S&T Operations
if a name is needed.
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
Related Degrees
This graduate certificate may act as a pathway to the following master’s programs:
Business Administration
(MBA)
Information Science and Technology
(MS)
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby, Associate Director for Online Admissions
Phone: 573-341-6903
Email:
stgrad@mst.edu
Business and Information
Science and Technology
Business and Information Science and Technology
101 Fulton Hall
301 W. 14th St.
Rolla, MO 65409
Phone: 573-341-4776
Email:
bit@mst.edu
Web:
bit.mst.edu