Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-degrees/mining-engineering/

Real Degrees for Working Professionals
Master of Science in Mining Engineering
Through this program, you will acquire an advanced understanding of mining processes and applications; the knowledge to design and select equipment for specific operations; and the expertise to use cutting-edge engineering methods to solve mining-related challenges in an economical, safe and efficient way.
Get on the fast track to management and executive positions through a master of science in mining engineering.
Graduates of this program are leaders in their fields and pursue careers in raw material production, all aspects of mining (coal, metals, aggregates etc.) and related fields, highway, dam and power station construction, and weapons systems. This program is one of the best in the nation.
A total of 30 credit hours is required to complete the degree, which includes a limited research component.
For students enrolled in a laboratory section, there may be a three-day to one-week laboratory session required on the Missouri S&T campus.
Admission Requirements
Bachelor’s degree in physical science or engineering preferred; another degree may be substituted with work experience in mining, if approved
Undergraduate GPA ≥ 3.0
International requirement: TOEFL ≥ 79, or IELTS
≥ 6.5
or satisfactory completion of an approved English language Institute program.
Graduate Certificates
Your Pathway to a Graduate Degree
Start earning college credit toward a graduate degree. The GRE is not required to enter a certificate program, and credit earned may be applied toward your master’s degree.*
Graduate Certificate Programs
Aggregates Management
Explosives Engineering
Mine Reclaimation
Mining Engineering
Mining Project Evaluation
Sustainability in Mining
*restrictions may apply
Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply. Check with the academic department for program specific details and requirements.
Learn more about the certificate to master's program
.
Accreditation
Missouri University of Science & Technology is accredited by the
Higher Learning Commission
, one of six regional institutional accreditors in the United States.
Nondegree-seeking enrollment
Prior to acceptance into the program, you may enroll in up to 6 credit hours as a nondegree-seeking (in some cases, post-baccalaureate) student. Enrollment does not guarantee acceptance. Learn more about
nondegree-seeking university student admissions
.
Licensure and disclosures
If you live outside of Missouri and are thinking about enrolling in a program that leads to professional licensure, the University of Missouri System strongly recommends that you check with the relevant licensing board in your state or the state where you plan to work. This will help you obtain the most current information about state licensure requirements before you enroll in any academic program. While Missouri University of Science & Technology strives to provide current licensure information, it's important to note that licensure regulations are subject to change.
For more details, please visit our
licensure and disclosure page
.
State authorization
States require that Missouri University of Science and Technology be authorized to deliver university-level distance/online education to their residents.
The process for authorization varies by state
.
For more details, please visit our
state authorization page
.
Authorized
Students residing in all states are eligible to enroll in this program.
Internships
Internships are encouraged for explore real-life applications of teacher leadership. Find more about available opportunities on
S&T's Career Opportunities
page.
Faculty
Our academic leaders are experts in their respective disciplines and bring extensive experience in higher education, industry, and departmental management. Learn more about the
Mining and Explosives Engineering Faculty
at S&T.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby
Associate Director for Online Admissions
573-341-6903  |
stgrad@mst.edu
Mining and Explosives Engineering
Kathleen German
Administrative Assistant
573-341-4753  |
kg2kv@mst.edu
Department Website:
mee.mst.edu