Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/computational-intelligence/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Computational Intelligence
Computer Science
|
Computer Engineering
|
Systems Engineering
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
Advances in information technology and the increased level of interconnectivity that society has achieved through internet and broadband communication technology have created systems that are very complex. The world is facing an increasing level of systems integration leading towards Systems of Systems (SoS) that adapt to changing environmental conditions. The number of connections between components, the diversity of the components and the way the components are organized can lead to different emergent system behavior. Computational intelligence tools are an integral part of these systems in enabling adaptive capability in their design and operation.
This graduate certificate program provides practicing engineers the opportunity to develop the necessary skills in the use and development of computational intelligence algorithms based on evolutionary computation, neural networks, fuzzy logic, and complex systems theory. Engineers can also learn how to integrate common sense reasoning with computational intelligence elective courses such as data mining and knowledge discovery.
Admission requirements
Admissions Requirements: Systems Engineering, Computer Science Departments
The only entrance requirement for students entering a graduate certificate program is that they satisfy the prerequisites for any course they take in the program.
Admissions Requirements: Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Bachelor's degree in any field of engineering
Undergraduate GPA
≥
3.0
Students in the certificate program must take four required courses. In order to receive a graduate certificate, the student must have an average GPA
of
3.0 or better in each of the certificate courses taken. A student admitted to the certificate program will have non-degree graduate status; however, if the four-course sequence is completed with a grade of B or better in each of the courses taken, the student will be admitted to the master's degree program in computer science, computer engineering or systems engineering, if they apply. The certificate courses taken by a student admitted to the MS program will count toward their master's degree. If the student does not have all of the prerequisite courses necessary to take the courses in the certificate program, they will be allowed to take "bridge" courses at either the graduate or undergraduate level to prepare for the formal certificate courses.
Once admitted to the program, a student will be given three years to complete the program, so long as a B average is maintained in the courses taken.
Distance application requirements
Students applying for a graduate certificate must submit the following:
Completed Application
Statement of Purpose
Transcripts
Online Application
When you start a new application, select "Graduate Online/Distance" and then select the certificate program.
Don't forget to list your current employer and company location on the application.
Statement of purpose should be 2-3 paragraphs explaining why you are applying for this program.
Statement is to be submitted electronically on the
online application
; you'll copy and paste it into the provided text box.
Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for an admit decision.
Upload your transcripts on the
online application
under your "Institutional Data." If you previously attended S&T, you must upload your transcript. An unofficial transcript can be requested through Joe’SS.
How to Request Unofficial Transcripts
(pdf)
PDF scans are preferred.
The university requires official transcripts from all schools attended before a student may register for a second semester.
In order for a transcript to be counted as official it must be sent directly from the school to S&T, it cannot come from a student.
Official transcripts should be mailed to Global Learning:
Missouri University of Science and Technology
Office of Global Learning
G8 Norwood Hall, 320 West 12th Street
Rolla, MO 65409
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
Related Degrees
This graduate certificate may act as a pathway to the following master’s programs:
Computer Engineering
(MS)
Computer Science
(MS)
Electrical Engineering
(MS)
Systems Engineering
(MS)
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby, Associate Director for Online Admissions
Phone: 573-341-6903
Email:
stgrad@mst.edu
Computer Science
Dr. Ricardo Morales
Assistant Teaching Professor
Computer Science
340 Computer Science Bldg.
500 W. 15th St.
Rolla, MO 65409-0350
Phone: 573-341-6350
Email:
csgradcoord@mst.edu
Web:
cs.mst.edu