Source: https://history.mst.edu/undergraduateprograms/

Programs in History and Political Science
As a history student, you’ll learn from some of the most respected history scholars in the country in an intimate setting. And you’ll have the opportunity to do research alongside these accomplished historians.
The history and political science department offers a Bachelor of Arts and a Bachelor of Science in History, as well as several minors. We have also added a new option, which allows you to combine a Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science with an emphasis in National Security. As a history major, you can also couple a Bachelor of Arts in History with a secondary education certificate, which certifies you to teach history in grades 9-12 in the state.
(This program is approved by the Missouri Department of Elementary and Secondary Education.
This program is approved by the Missouri Department of Elementary and Secondary Education.  License reciprocity determinations outside of Missouri can be found at
https://teaching.missouri.edu/student/state-authorization/mst/licensure
)
Undergraduate Degrees
Bachelor of Arts in History
Offers a broad history education, including numerous electives and courses in American and European history.
Bachelor of Science in History
Offers a broad history education, including numerous electives and courses in American and European history.
Bachelor of Arts with Secondary Education Emphasis
Fulfill the general requirements for the bachelor of arts degree, the requirements for the history major, and the requirements for Missouri certification in the teaching of history.
Bachelor of Arts with National Security Emphasis
Fulfill the general requirements for the bachelor of arts degree, and the requirements for the history major, while taking social science courses to prepare you for careers in the government, military, and public service.
Bachelor of Science with National Security Emphasis
Fulfill the general requirements for the bachelor of science degree, and the requirements for the history major, while taking social science courses to prepare you for careers in the government, military, and public service.
New to History and Political Science Department!
Experiential Learning
Experiential learning activities are designed to require students to go beyond mastering basic skills and knowledge in the application of that material to problem solving challenges.
EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING OPTIONS
Follow History and Political Science
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube