Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/teacher-leadership/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Teacher Leadership
Education
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
As a passionate K–12 educator, you’re ready to enact change at the community level with an advanced online degree in teacher leadership. Prepare to mentor other teachers or take on additional responsibilities with the 100% online teacher leadership graduate certificate from the
Missouri University of Science and Technology (Missouri S&T)
. Gain advanced leadership skills to take your profession beyond expectations.
After earning your graduate certificate, you’ll be able to observe and mentor new teachers effectively. Then conduct research to make improvements where you work. Online flexibility and zero commute in this graduate program mean you can focus on advancing your community’s school. This fits in your busy schedule so you can take on the challenge of enhancing curriculum at your school. Gain the skills to identify an organizational problem you want to address with research-based strategies.
Don’t compromise on your education. Missouri S&T’s renowned
College of Arts, Sciences, and Education
will equip you with the skills you need for immediate application in your job and into the future. Enroll in this online, 12-credit teacher leadership graduate program today.
Admission requirements
Currently teaching or two years of experience teaching (evaluated through resume)
3.0 GPA in undergraduate or previous graduate coursework
Statement of purpose with a focus on how this program will impact their teaching and learning community
No GRE is required.
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Program structure
This program is 100% online: no campus visits required.
Courses are semester-based. Students typically take one or two classes per semester and finish the program in one year.
Delivery
100% online
Calendar system
Semester-based
Typical program length
1–2 years
Typical course load
1–2 courses a semester
Courses are offered asynchronously, meaning they do not have regular meetings. They may consist of various media and content — such as online discussions, videos, quizzes and recordings — that students review and complete at the time of their choice.
Required Courses – 12 credit hours
The flowing are the courses offered in the program. Courses are 3 credit hours each, unless stated otherwise. The University reserves the right to change or cancel courses as needed.
EDUC 5150 Teacher Leadership within Educational Systems
EDUC 5220 Instructional Coaching and Mentoring
EDUC 5225 Curriculum Development and Assessment
EDUC 5330 Community-Based Participatory Action Research
Accreditation
Missouri University of Science & Technology is accredited by the
Higher Learning Commission
, one of six regional institutional accreditors in the United States.
Nondegree-seeking enrollment
Prior to acceptance into the program, you may enroll in up to 6 credit hours as a nondegree-seeking (in some cases, post-baccalaureate) student. Enrollment does not guarantee acceptance. Learn more about
nondegree-seeking university student admissions
.
State authorization
States require that Missouri University of Science and Technology be authorized to deliver university-level distance/online education to their residents. Each state handles this process differently.
Please see our
state authorization page
for more information.
Authorized with stipulations
Students residing in these states may be eligible to enroll in this program, but certain stipulations exist.
Colorado
Internships
Internships are available and encouraged to explore real-life applications of teacher leadership. Learn more about offerings on
S&T's Career Opportunities page
.
Faculty
Our academic leaders are experts in their disciplines who bring extensive experience in higher education, industry, and departmental management. Learn more about
S&T's Education Faculty
.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby
Associate Director for Online Admissions
Phone: 573-341-6903
Email:
stgrad@mst.edu
Education
Beth Kania-Gosche, PhD
Professor and Chair of Teacher Education and Certification
Phone: 573-341-4120
Email:
bkaniagosche@mst.edu