Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-degrees/geologicalengineering/

Real Degrees for Working Professionals
Master of Science in Geological Engineering
Geological engineering is the application of principles of geology to the solution of a wide range of problems in engineering practice, such as assessing and mitigating geologic hazards (subsidence, landslides, flooding, etc.), evaluating and improving groundwater resources, sustainably developing mineral and energy resources, selecting appropriate sites for civil and military infrastructure, and analyzing land use and environmental impacts.
This is a non-thesis master's degree program. It consists of a minimum of 30 credit hours, including at least one course in each of the three core areas, plus one or more courses from each of the four emphasis areas (see below). No fewer than four courses of the total must be geological engineering courses. Course substitutions may be made on a case-by-case basis, subject to approval by the graduate adviser.
Geological Engineering Core Courses
(Take all 3) = 9 credit hours
GEO ENG 5331 Subsurface Hydrology – or – GEO ENG 5381 Intermediate Subsurface Hydrology and Contaminant Transport
GEO ENG 5441 Engineering Geology and Geotechnics – or – GEO ENG 6441 Geotechnical Construction Practice – or – GEO ENG 6625 Applications in Geological Engineering
GEO ENG 5443 Subsurface Exploration
Engineering Geology and Geotechnics Emphasis Area
(Choose 1 to 3 courses; at least one must be Geo Eng) = 3 to 9 credit hours
GEO ENG 5471 Rock Engineering
GEO ENG 6441 Geotechnical Construction Practice
GEO ENG 6477 Discontinuous Rock
GEO ENG 6625 Applications in Geological Engineering
CIV ENG 5715 Intermediate Soil Mechanics
CIV ENG 5716 Geotechnical Earthquake Engineering
CIV ENG 5729 Foundation Engineering II
Environmental and Hydrology Emphasis Area
(Choose 1 to 3 courses) = 3 to 9 credit hours
GEO ENG 5233 Risk Assessment in Environmental Studies
GEO ENG 5235 Environmental Geological Engineering
GEO ENG 5237 Geological Aspects of Hazardous Waste Management
GEO ENG 5381 Intermediate Subsurface Hydrology and Contaminant Transport
GEO ENG 6235 Advanced Concepts of Environmental Geological Engineering
GEO ENG 6237 Advanced Geological and Geotechnical Design for Hazardous Waste Management
GEO ENG 6331 Advanced Subsurface Hydrology
Engineering Geophysics Emphasis Area
(Choose 1 to 2 courses) = 3 to 6 credit hours
GEO ENG 5736 Geophysical Field Methods
GEO ENG 5761 Transportation Applications of Geophysics
GEO ENG 5782 Environmental and Engineering Geophysics
GEO ENG 6782 Surface Waves (MASW) and Ground Penetrating Radar (GPR)
GEO ENG 6784 Advanced Engineering and Environmental Geophysics
Data Analysis Emphasis Area
(Choose 1 to 2 courses) = 3 to 6 credit hours
GEO ENG 5144 Remote Sensing Technology
GEO ENG 5146 Applications of Geographic Information Systems
GEO ENG 5315 Advanced Statistical Methods in Geology and Engineering
GEO ENG 5556 Renewable Energy Systems
COMP SCI 5204 Regression Analysis
STAT 5260 Statistical Data Analysis Using SAS
STAT 5346 Regression Analysis
STAT 5353 Statistical Data Analysis
STAT 5814 Applied Time Series Analysis
Admission Requirements
Previous degree in geological engineering or a related engineering or science field. If the previous degree is non-engineering, the student may be required to take remedial course(s).
GPA ≥ 3.0 on a 4.0 scale for the immediately preceding degree program (BS or MS).
GRE Q ≥ 150; GRE V+Q ≥ 300; GRE A(W) ≥ 3.0
International Requirement: TOEFL ≥ 79 or IELTS ≥ 6.5 or Pearson ≥ 53
Graduate Certificates
Your Pathway to a Graduate Degree
Start earning college credit toward a graduate degree. The GRE is not required to enter a certificate program, and credit earned may be applied toward your master’s degree.*
Graduate Certificate Programs
Geologic Hazards
Geotechnics
Mine Reclaimation
Space Resources
Subsurface Water Resources
*restrictions may apply
Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply. Check with the academic department for program specific details and requirements.
Learn more about the certificate to master's program
.
Accreditation
Missouri University of Science & Technology is accredited by the
Higher Learning Commission
, one of six regional institutional accreditors in the United States.
Nondegree-seeking enrollment
Prior to acceptance into the program, you may enroll in up to 6 credit hours as a nondegree-seeking (in some cases, post-baccalaureate) student. Enrollment does not guarantee acceptance. Learn more about
nondegree-seeking university student admissions
.
Licensure and disclosures
If you live outside of Missouri and are thinking about enrolling in a program that leads to professional licensure, the University of Missouri System strongly recommends that you check with the relevant licensing board in your state or the state where you plan to work. This will help you obtain the most current information about state licensure requirements before you enroll in any academic program. While Missouri University of Science & Technology strives to provide current licensure information, it's important to note that licensure regulations are subject to change.
For more details, please visit our
licensure and disclosure page
.
State authorization
States require that Missouri University of Science and Technology be authorized to deliver university-level distance/online education to their residents.
The process for authorization varies by state
.
For more details, please visit our
state authorization page
.
Authorized
Students residing in all states are eligible to enroll in this program.
Internships
Internships are encouraged for explore real-life applications of teacher leadership. Find more about available opportunities on
S&T's Career Opportunities
page.
Faculty
Our academic leaders are experts in their respective disciplines and bring extensive experience in higher education, industry, and departmental management. Learn more about the
Earth Sciences and Engineering Faculty
at S&T.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby
Associate Director for Online Admissions
573-341-6903  |
stgrad@mst.edu
Earth Sciences and Engineering
Jeffrey D. Cawlfield, PhD
Interim Department Chair and Professor
573-341-6774  |
jdc@mst.edu
Department email:
rocks@mst.edu