Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/business-project-management/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Business Project Management
Business and Information Technology
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
This certificate programs aims to equip students with a set of tools that will allow them to achieve Project Management Institute (PMI) standards in the project management area, to successfully manage projects and human resources, and to analyze, evaluate, and improve systems. Specifically it will give students the ability to:
Identify operations problems and implement solutions for improved strategic competitiveness
Make sound decisions, plan, and control the key resources of an organization – money and people
Critically analyze, evaluate, improve, or adapt existing technical and/or managerial systems
Organize and manage complex projects
Admission requirements
The business project management certificate program is open to all persons holding a bachelor's, master's or doctorate degree in areas such as business, social sciences, technology, engineering, or related disciplines.
The certificate program consists of four courses.
You must have the prerequisites for the courses in the program.
In order to receive a graduate certificate, you must earn a cumulative GPA ≥ 3.0 in the four certificate courses taken.
Students admitted to the certificate program will have non-degree graduate status, but will earn graduate credit for the courses they complete. The courses in the program will be offered at least once per year.
If you successfully complete the certificate program,  you can, upon application, be admitted to the Master of Business Administration (MBA), or the Master of Science in Information Science and Technology (MS IST). The certificate courses taken will count toward your master's degree program.
Once admitted to the certificate program, you will have three years to complete the certificate, as long as you maintain a B average in the courses taken.
Distance application requirements
Students applying for a graduate certificate must submit the following:
Completed Application
Statement of Purpose
Transcripts
Online Application
When you start a new application, select "Graduate Online/Distance" and then select the certificate program.
Don't forget to list your current employer and company location on the application.
Statement of purpose should be 2-3 paragraphs explaining why you are applying for this program.
Statement is to be submitted electronically on the
online application
; you'll copy and paste it into the provided text box.
Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for an admit decision.
Upload your transcripts on the
online application
under your "Institutional Data." If you previously attended S&T, you must upload your transcript. An unofficial transcript can be requested through Joe’SS.
How to Request Unofficial Transcripts
(pdf)
PDF scans are preferred.
The university requires official transcripts from all schools attended before a student may register for a second semester.
In order for a transcript to be counted as official it must be sent directly from the school to S&T, it cannot come from a student.
Official transcripts should be mailed to Global Learning:
Missouri University of Science and Technology
Office of Global Learning
G8 Norwood Hall, 320 West 12th Street
Rolla, MO 65409
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
Related Degrees
This graduate certificate may act as a pathway to the following master’s programs:
Business Administration
(MBA )
Information Science and Technology
(MS)
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby, Associate Director for Online Admissions
Phone: 573-341-6903
Email:
stgrad@mst.edu
Business and Information
Science and Technology
Business and Information Science and Technology
101 Fulton Hall
301 W. 14th St.
Rolla, MO 65409
Phone: 573-341-4776
Email:
bit@mst.edu
Web:
bit.mst.edu