Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-degrees/explosives-technology/

Real Degrees for Working Professionals
Master of Science in Explosives Technology
Through this graduate program you will study theoretical and practical approaches of explosives engineering and learn analysis and design of explosive-related systems. This program is designed for non-engineers.
Thesis and non-thesis options available. However, the non-thesis option is encouraged for distance students. Both options require 30 credit hours of coursework to complete, with a minimum 9 hours of 6000+ lecture classes. Thesis candidates may choose to include 6 hours of research to replace a 3 hour 5000+ lecture course and a 3 hour 6000+ lecture course in order to write a thesis.
A core of four courses is required of all students, and a module of allied courses in departments outside of explosives is encouraged. Four of the following courses are required of all M.S. students in Explosives Technology:
EXP ENG 5612 Principles of Explosives Engineering
EXP ENG 5622 Blasting Design and Technology
EXP ENG 5711 Explosives in Industry
EXP ENG 5713 Demolition of Buildings and Structures
EXP ENG 5721 Specialty Uses of Energetic Materials
EXP ENG 5914 Explosives Manufacturing
EXP ENG 5922 Advanced Tunneling and Underground Construction Techniques
EXP ENG 6112 Explosives Regulations
Students select 12 hours of Explosive Engineering and other appropriate elective courses. M.S. in explosives technology candidates are advised to group out-of-department courses into a module that fits their special interest.
Admission Requirements
Bachelor’s degree, with experience handling and using explosives
Undergraduate GPA ≥ 3.0
International requirement: TOEFL ≥ 80, or IELTS
≥ 6.5, or
satisfactory completion of an approved English language Institute program.
All participants in explosives courses must submit to a security background check.
Graduate Certificates
Your Pathway to a Graduate Degree
Start earning college credit toward a graduate degree. The GRE is not required to enter a certificate program, and credit earned may be applied toward your master’s degree.*
Graduate Certificate Programs
Explosives Engineering
Explosives Technology
Mining Engineering
*restrictions may apply
Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply. Check with the academic department for program specific details and requirements.
Learn more about the certificate to master's program
.
Accreditation
Missouri University of Science & Technology is accredited by the
Higher Learning Commission
, one of six regional institutional accreditors in the United States.
Nondegree-seeking enrollment
Prior to acceptance into the program, you may enroll in up to 6 credit hours as a nondegree-seeking (in some cases, post-baccalaureate) student. Enrollment does not guarantee acceptance. Learn more about
nondegree-seeking university student admissions
.
Licensure and disclosures
If you live outside of Missouri and are thinking about enrolling in a program that leads to professional licensure, the University of Missouri System strongly recommends that you check with the relevant licensing board in your state or the state where you plan to work. This will help you obtain the most current information about state licensure requirements before you enroll in any academic program. While Missouri University of Science & Technology strives to provide current licensure information, it's important to note that licensure regulations are subject to change.
For more details, please visit our
licensure and disclosure page
.
State authorization
States require that Missouri University of Science and Technology be authorized to deliver university-level distance/online education to their residents.
The process for authorization varies by state
.
For more details, please visit our
state authorization page
.
Authorized
Students residing in all states are eligible to enroll in this program.
Internships
Internships are encouraged for explore real-life applications of teacher leadership. Find more about available opportunities on
S&T's Career Opportunities
page.
Faculty
Our academic leaders are experts in their respective disciplines and bring extensive experience in higher education, industry, and departmental management. Learn more about the
Mining and Explosives Engineering Faculty
at S&T.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby
Associate Director for Online Admissions
573-341-6903  |
stgrad@mst.edu
Mining and Explosives Engineering
Kathleen German
Administrative Assistant
573-341-4753  |
kg2kv@mst.edu
Department Website:
mee.mst.edu