Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-certificates/geotechnics/

Online Education
Graduate Certificate in
Geotechnics
Geological Engineering
Apply Now
Course Curriculum
Request Info
About the Certificate
This certificate program is designed to provide formalized engineering education to practitioners in geology, geological engineering, mining engineering and geotechnical engineering.
The following 5000-level courses* are required:
GEO ENG 5441: Engineering Geology and Geotechnics
GEO ENG 5471: Rock Engineering
GEO ENG 5381: Intermediate Subsurface Hydrology And Contaminant Transport
CIV ENG 5715: Intermediate Soil Mechanics or MIN ENG 6842 Rock Mechanics II
* Curriculum is subject to change. Other courses approved by the program coordinator may be substituted for any of the above listed courses on a case-by-case basis.
Students will be able to take lower-level deficiency courses (prerequisites) online where available, but these will not count toward the certificate. In some cases, 3000 and 4000-level courses may be substituted for the courses listed above, if approved by the program coordinator.
Students must have an average cumulative grade of 3.0 (B-grade) or better in the four certificate courses, and complete the requirements in 3 years or less to obtain their certificate.
Students who successfully complete the certificate program will be admitted to the Master of Engineering in Geotechnics , if they apply. The certificate courses will be counted toward the ME degree and no GRE score will be required for admission.
Admission requirements
Admission requirements to the certificate program include an undergraduate degree (BS or equivalent) and the necessary prerequisites to the required courses. (Prerequisites may be waived on a case-by-case basis by the course instructors.) A GRE score is not required for admittance into the certificate program.
The following courses (or equivalents) are required for admittance into the program.
GEO ENG 1150: Physical and Environmental Geology
GEO ENG 2605: Statics and Mechanics of Geological Materials
MIN ENG 4823: Rock Mechanics I or CIV ENG 3715: Fundamentals of Geotechnical Engineering (Introductory Soil Mechanics) or GEO ENG 5415: Soil Mechanics for Geoprofessionals
Distance application requirements
Students applying for a graduate certificate must submit the following:
Completed Application
Statement of Purpose
Transcripts
Online Application
When you start a new application, select "Graduate Online/Distance" and then select the certificate program.
Don't forget to list your current employer and company location on the application.
Statement of purpose should be 2-3 paragraphs explaining why you are applying for this program.
Statement is to be submitted electronically on the
online application
; you'll copy and paste it into the provided text box.
Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for an admit decision.
Upload your transcripts on the
online application
under your "Institutional Data." If you previously attended S&T, you must upload your transcript. An unofficial transcript can be requested through Joe’SS.
How to Request Unofficial Transcripts
(pdf)
PDF scans are preferred.
The university requires official transcripts from all schools attended before a student may register for a second semester.
In order for a transcript to be counted as official it must be sent directly from the school to S&T, it cannot come from a student.
Official transcripts should be mailed to Global Learning:
Missouri University of Science and Technology
Office of Global Learning
G8 Norwood Hall, 320 West 12th Street
Rolla, MO 65409
Pathway to a Master's Degree
Are you a working professional who wants to earn your master's degree, but you don’t have time to take the GRE/GMAT? Then start in a graduate certificate program. Graduate certificates were designed as a pathway to a master's degree.* The admission requirements are more relaxed and credit earned will count toward your degree. Once you successfully earn your graduate certificate, you can continue with the corresponding master's degree without having to take the GRE/GMAT.
Related Degrees
This graduate certificate may act as a pathway to the following master’s programs:
Geotechnics
(ME)
*Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby, Associate Director for Online Admissions
Phone: 573-341-6903
Email:
stgrad@mst.edu
GEOLOGICAL ENGINEERING
Dr. Ryan Smith
Assistant Professor of Geological Engineering
129 McNutt Hall
Rolla, MO 65409
Email:
smithryang@mst.edu
Phone: 573-341-4466