Source: https://distance.mst.edu/distance-programs/distance-graduate-degrees/civil-engineering/

Real Degrees for Working Professionals
Master of Science in Civil Engineering
Especially in today’s world, progress means designing longer-lasting, more sustainable solutions that preserve the environment and transform infrastructure and building design. If you look to lead these projects, realize your aspirations with Missouri University of Science and Technology’s (Missouri S&T) online master of science in civil engineering.
Develop a specialization across civil engineering’s wide spectrum of disciplines while honing your leadership skills. Flexibility shapes both the fully online delivery and format: candidates tailor their degree program to their career and educational goals.
Interested in driving sustainable development in your field? Apply to the program directly, or explore advanced subject matters in one of Missouri S&T’s graduate certificate programs before transferring your credits. Related certificate programs include
contemporary structural engineering
,
geoenvironmental engineering
,
geotechnical earthquake engineering
,
infrastructure renewal
and
project engineering and construction management
.
Missouri S&T’s
Department of Civil, Architectural and Environmental Engineering
follows one mission: we aim to change the world. This factor shapes the online master’s in civil engineering: graduates learn to plan, develop and design novel and sustainable infrastructure that improves both human and natural environments. Courses stress scientific discovery and engineering innovation through the latest technologies and sustainable development principles.
At the same time, the department’s courses and faculty demonstrate civil engineering’s many subdisciplines and applications. Graduate students are encouraged to chart their own path toward this goal through architectural, construction, environmental, geotechnical, materials, structural and water resources engineering. In developing a customized plan of study, you’ll:
Strengthen and upgrade your foundation in civil engineering principles
Prepare to stay ahead in the dynamic world of civil engineering
Develop a specialization in a subdiscipline while growing as a leader
Gain the skills to oversee projects from concept to completion
Become a more strategic problem-solver prepared to propose solutions to existing environmental challenges without losing sight of economic and safety factors
Explore the design process in greater detail to develop more sustainable, longer-lasting structures and upgrade existing facilities
Be taught by faculty members who influence the civil engineering field through original research in infrastructure materials, natural hazard mitigation, smart cities, blast and impact protection for infrastructures, low-energy wastewater treatment, green infrastructure, concrete durability and infrastructure climate adaptation
Admission Requirements
Bachelor’s degree in an engineering discipline from an accredited program
Undergraduate GPA ≥ 3.0
International requirement: TOEFL ≥ 80 iBT or IELTS
≥ 6.5
Students with non-civil engineering degrees may be required to take additional courses to prepare them for their advanced studies. In some cases, students with non-engineering degrees (e.g., chemistry, physics, geology, or biology) will be considered if deficiencies in mathematics, science and engineering are remedied.
Doctorate Degree in Civil Engineering
Please contact the academic department for details on the distance doctorate of engineering program. Email
care@mst.edu
or call 573-341-4461.
Graduate Certificates
Your Pathway to a Graduate Degree
Start earning college credit toward a graduate degree. The GRE is not required to enter a certificate program, and credit earned may be applied toward your master’s degree.*
Civil Engineering Graduate Certificate Programs
Advanced Materials for Sustainable Infrastructure
Building Systems Engineering
Contemporary Structural Engineering
Geoenvironmental Engineering
Geotechnical Earthquake Engineering
Infrastructure Renewal
Project Engineering and Construction Management
Surface Water Resources
*restrictions may apply
Completion of a graduate certificate program does not automatically guarantee admission into a corresponding graduate degree program. To continue in a master’s degree program, you must apply. Check with the academic department for program specific details and requirements.
Learn more about the certificate to master's program
.
Program structure
This program is 100% online: no campus visits required.
Courses are semester-based. Students typically take one or two classes per semester and finish the program in one year.
Delivery
100% online
Calendar system
Semester-based
Typical program length
1–2 years
Typical course load
1–2 courses a semester
Courses are offered asynchronously, meaning they do not have regular meetings. They may consist of various media and content — such as online discussions, videos, quizzes and recordings — that students review and complete at the time of their choice.
Required Course Work – 30 credit hours
The online master’s in civil engineering is a 30-credit-hour, non-thesis degree program. Courses are delivered 100% online in a streaming video format and are based on a semester schedule. Consult your adviser to build your degree program in line with your education and career goals
.
Students have the option to specialize their knowledge in one of the following listed subdisciplines Courses are 3 credit hours each unless stated otherwise. The University reserves the right to change or cancel courses as needed. Refer to the
S&T Grad Catalog
to explore course descriptions.
SPECIALIZED SUBDISCIPLINES
Construction engineering:
Specialize your civil engineering knowledge toward the construction industry. Courses expose you to the full design and construction process, including estimating, scheduling, contracts, productivity and project delivery systems.
Environmental engineering:
Understand how to protect and preserve the Earth’s natural resources through courses in groundwater, soil remediation, air pollution control and wastewater treatment.
Geotechnical engineering:
Think about where you’ll be building and the impact and stability of the structure in relation to the Earth. Courses explore topics in soil properties and their measurements, foundations, embankments, earth dams, soil mechanics, numerical modeling, soil dynamics and earthquake engineering.
Structural engineering general studies:
Learn to build structures that last and leave minimal environmental impact through courses exploring reinforced concrete, cold-formed steel, fiber-reinforced polymer composites, high-performance concrete, seismic behavior of structures and damage detection.
Water resources engineering:
Understand how to preserve and protect the Earth’s most abundant resources. Learn more about advanced hydraulics and hydrology, watershed and urban hydrology, physical and mathematical modeling, sediment transport and river mechanics.
Accreditation
Missouri University of Science & Technology is accredited by the
Higher Learning Commission
, one of six regional institutional accreditors in the United States.
Nondegree-seeking enrollment
Prior to acceptance into the program, you may enroll in up to 6 credit hours as a nondegree-seeking (in some cases, post-baccalaureate) student. Enrollment does not guarantee acceptance. Learn more about
nondegree-seeking university student admissions
.
Licensure and disclosures
If you live outside of Missouri and are thinking about enrolling in a program that leads to professional licensure, the University of Missouri System strongly recommends that you check with the relevant licensing board in your state or the state where you plan to work. This will help you obtain the most current information about state licensure requirements before you enroll in any academic program. While Missouri University of Science & Technology strives to provide current licensure information, it's important to note that licensure regulations are subject to change.
For more details, please visit our
licensure and disclosure page
.
State authorization
States require that Missouri University of Science and Technology be authorized to deliver university-level distance/online education to their residents.
The process for authorization varies by state
.
For more details, please visit our
state authorization page
.
Authorized
Students residing in all states are eligible to enroll in this program.
Internships
Internships are encouraged for explore real-life applications of teacher leadership. Find more about available opportunities on
S&T's Career Opportunities
page.
Faculty
Our academic leaders are experts in their respective disciplines and bring extensive experience in higher education, industry, and departmental management. Learn more about the
Civil and Environmental Engineering Faculty
at S&T.
Questions?
Contact Us
Missouri S&T Online Education
Sylvia Skouby
Associate Director for Online Admissions
573-341-6903  |
stgrad@mst.edu
Civil, Architectural and Environmental Engineering
William Schonberg, PhD, PE
Assistant Chair for Distance Education and Professor
573-341-4787  |
wschon@mst.edu
Rachel Johnson
Graduate Student Support Specialist
573-341-4470  |
rfjohnson@mst.edu
Department Website:
care.mst.edu