URL: https://www.iulm.it/en/offerta-formativa/dottorati-di-ricerca/communication-markets-and-society/communication-markets-and-society

Doctor in
Communication, Markets and Society
XXXIX
Coordinator of the Teaching Board
Stefania Romenti
HOME
Research doctorates
Communication, Markets and Society
Doctor in
Communication, Markets and Society
cicloXXXIX
[Coordinator of the Teaching Board:
Course
Admissions
Career
Opportunities
The PhD in Communication, Markets and Society from IULM University offers an interdisciplinary course of advanced training focused on communication and mainly on business communication. It is the result of the experience gained in this field by IULM University, which has developed a specific interpretation of markets, consumption and the different forms of communication related to them, considered part of a single cultural and social context in constant change.
The PhD in Communication, Markets and Society follows in its approach the international model of PhDs and deals with the following disciplinary areas: communication studies, media studies, economics, management, marketing, neuromarketing, psychology of consumption, sociology of consumption. It also pays attention to the analysis of the main research methodologies and promotes an educational and research activity based on an international perspective.
The PhD in Communication, Markets and Society provides, among its professional opportunities, the possibility of an academic path both in a national context and in an international context, but also makes possible corporate professions related to the field of marketing and business communication or placements in communication agencies of excellence.
The PhD in Communication, Markets and Society offers an interdisciplinary course focused on communication and, more specifically, on corporate communication. This is the result of the experience gained in this field by IULM University, which developed specific knowledge and specific research skills about markets, consumption and the different forms of communication related to them, all considered as parts of a complex cultural and social context in constant change.
The PhD in Communication, Markets and Society is inspired by international PhD models and deals with the following research areas: communication studies, media studies, economics, management, marketing, neuromarketing, psychology of consumption, sociology of consumption. It also pays attention to the analysis of the main research methodologies and promotes teaching and research activities based on an international perspective.
The professional opportunities related to the PhD in Communication, Markets and Society includes academic career in a national or international context and also corporate roles in the fields of marketing and business communication, or placement opportunities in communication agencies of excellence.
Teaching Board
Antonella Ardizzone
Luca Barbarito
Angela Besana
Alessandro Bruno
Vanni Codeluppi
Elanor Colleoni
Daniela Corsaro
Manuela De Carlo
Guido Di Fraia
Annamaria Esposito
Claudio Emanuele Felice
Guido Ferilli
Mauro Ferraresi
Martha Friel
Francesco Massara
Aurelio Mauri
Alessandra Mazzei
Pietro Mazzola
Angelo Miglietta
Alberto Mingardi
Ariela Mortara
Grazia Murtarelli
Maria Angela Polesana
Silvia Ravazzani
Federica Ricceri
Elisabetta Risi
Stefania Romenti
Giuseppe Rossi
Vincenzo Russo
Ruggero Sainaghi
Rosantonietta Scramaglia
Margherita Zito
External members of the board
Carlo Amenta,  Università degli Studi di Palermo
Francesco Bianchini, Alma Mater Studiorum - Università di Bologna
Didactics
PhD Program
Courses program for 39 cycle -a.y. 2023-2024
Courses program for 38° cycle - a.a. 2022-2023
Courses time table for a.y. 2024/2025
The opening lecture will take place on the 10th of October 2024
Attività ottobre, novembre e dicembre 2024
Courses time table for a.y. 2023/2024
The opening lecture will take place on the 19 October 2023
Attività ottobre, novembre e dicembre 2023
Attività gennaio 2024
Attività febbraio 2024
Attività marzo 2024
Attività aprile 2024
Attività maggio 2024
Courses time table a.y. 2022/2023
October, November, December 2022
January 2023
February 023
March 2023
Aprile 2023
May 2023
Courses time table a.y.

 2021/2022
November, December 2021
January 2022
February 2022
March 2022
April, May 2022
Previous academic years schedule
Courses Schedule a.y. 2020/2021
Courses Schedule a.y. 2019/2020
Teaching in common with the two PhD Courses
IULM University offers interdisciplinary courses aimed at developing the skills necessary for a researcher in training: communication, design and technical research funding, protection of intellectual property and skills in innovation and digital communication - the strength of our University.
The implementation of these training courses takes place according to the European recommendations on the development of doctoral education: in 2011, the European Commission includes the "Transferable Skills" among the basic principles for innovation of doctoral training courses.
The aim of the interdisciplinary courses is the development of skills that also encourage, beyond the academic career, inclusion in roles of high responsibility in various institutions, research centres and companies.
English Academic Writing
The course provides practical tools related to:
Elements that make up an academic text
Call for papers submission: the construction of the abstract
Writing a paper
Quoting, paraphrasing, referencing techniques
Presentation of a research paper
Construction of an academic bio short
Copyright
The course provides an introduction to the themes of intellectual property and legal protection of creative activities. The themes of copyright on products of university research and some problematic aspects of the application of rules on intellectual property to activities and works characteristic of the contemporary art scene are the subject of in-depth study.
Theory and practice of European design for cultural and creative enterprises
Training objectives:
Acquisition of skills in the analysis of European Union research and development policies for "Cultural and Creative Industries - CCI";
Acquisition of the design logic required for participation in European Union Calls for Proposals;
Research and analysis of good practices in the field
Acquisition of a forma mentis of research oriented to the consideration of the concrete benefits for the whole society, not only for the specific scientific community of reference, in relation to the fruits of its research work.
Contents:
EU direct funds for research and development in the field of Cultural and Creative Industries CCIs
The logic of European design: the Logical framework approach
Matching between the objectives of the European programme and the objectives of the project
Project evaluation: the point of view of the European external evaluator
Needs analysis and definition of objectives
Expected results and result indicators
European added value and partnership building
Risk analysis
Dissemination and use of results
Impact and sustainability of the project
Project management and reporting
Drafting of the project draft
Monitoring of calls for CCI grants
Teaching methodologies, techniques and strategies
The course aims to provide the doctoral student with basic methodologies and techniques regarding the organisation of university courses, with the aim of outlining ways of developing autonomous learning processes capable of promoting and/or enhancing interest and motivation in students in order to build meaningful and lasting learning. The doctoral student is introduced to the teaching-learning process through theoretical elements and practical exercises. A number of teaching methodologies are presented, focusing on the procedural and processual methods activated through adequate planning by the teacher, aiming at a meaningful and stable acquisition of knowledge centred on the teaching process. The complexity of teaching and training is shown in its compositional nature linked to the structuring of contents, methods, operational techniques, and strategies as well as implicit and explicit values. Specifically, the expository method, the operational method (workshops), the investigative method (experimental research), the heuristic-participative method (action-research); the individualised method (mastery learning) are presented. In parallel, the techniques of simulation; situation analysis; operational reproduction; cooperative production (e.g. action mazes, circle time, didactic debriefing, debate, jigsaws, peer education, service learning, storytelling, spaced learning, tinkering, tutoring) are explained. The difference between expository and heuristic-participatory strategies is clarified. The doctoral student will acquire a comprehensive view of the role of the teacher as a facilitator of learning processes and will be able to put these into practice through targeted exercises.

HOME
Research doctorates
Communication, Markets and Society
Doctor in
Communication, Markets and Society
cicloXXXIX
Coordinator:
Course
Admissions
Career
Opportunities
Admission to the PhD programs takes place following a public competition for titles and examinations. The selection is aimed at assessing the candidate's aptitude for research and is based on the evaluation of the qualifications, the research project as well as the performance of a written test and/or an oral test, according to procedures indicated in the public competition call for admissions.
The notice of admission to the XL cycle of PhD programs for the academic year 2024/2025  expires on 8th July 2024 at 12.00 noon (Italian time).
Click here to apply.
The admission examination consists of an oral test preceded by the evaluation of qualifications and publications; the result of the evaluation will be published on the University website together with the dates of the test, which will take place at IULM University in Milan.
The date and time of the interview  will be published in the section  "
calls
", please refer to "Avviso date prove orali"
Calls
Call  for application NRRP XL cycle a.y. 2024-2025 - deadline 10 July 12.00 (noon) italian time
Bando XL ciclo - PNRR
Call for Application XL Cycle - NRRP
Guida per la compilazione della domanda
Application guidelines
Avviso date prove orali
(published on 17/06/2024)
Decreto nomina Commissione PhD Communication PNRR
Call for application XL cycle a.y. 2024-2025 -deadline 8 July 12.00 (noon) italian time
Bando XL Ciclo
Call for Application XL Cycle
Guida per la compilazione della domanda
Application Guidelines
Avviso date prove orali
(published on 09/07/2024)
Rector's Decree No 20765 of 5 July 2024
— Extension deadline Call for Application PhD Communication, Markets and Society — XL Cycle to 12 noon (Italian time) on 31 July 2024
Decreto nomina commissione PhD CMS - bando ordinario
Call for application XXXIX series a.y. 2023-2024 - with funds allocated by the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR)
Bando XXXIX ciclo - PNRR
Call for Application XXXIX ciclo - PNRR
Guida per la compilazione della domanda
Application Guidelines
Avviso date prove orali
Decreto nomina Commissione PhD in Communication, Markets and Societ
y
Call for application XXXIX series a.y. 2023-2024
Bando XXXIX Ciclo
Call for Application XXXIX Ciclo
Guida per la compilazione della domanda
Application Guidelines
Avviso date prove orali
(pubblicato il 26/06/2023)
Decreto nomina Commissione PhD in Visual and Media Studies
Decreto nomina Commissione PhD in Communication, Markets and Society
Call for application XXXVIII series (PNRR DM 351/2022) a.y. 2022-2023
Bando XXXVIII Ciclo a valere sui fondi stanziati dal PNRR nell’ambito della Missione 4,
Componente 1, Investimento 4.1
Call for application XXXVIII Cycle (PNRR)
Guida per la compilazione della domanda
Application Guidelines
Decreto proroga termini Bando PNRR
Decreto nomina commissione Visual and Media Studies
Decreto nomina commissione Communication, Markets and Society
Call for application XXXVIII series a.y. 2022-2023
Bando XXXVIII Ciclo
Call for application XXXVIII Cycle
Guida per la compilazione della domanda
Application Guidelines
Decreto nomina Commissione Dottorato in Visual and Media Studies
Decreto  parziale rettifica calendario prove dottorato Visual and Media Studies
Decreto nomina Commissione Dottorato in Communication, Markets and Society
Call for application XXXVII series PON DM 1061/2021) a.y 2021-2022
Bando per l'assegnazione di Borse di studio di Dottorato di Ricerca Aggiuntive su tematiche GREEN (Azione IV.5)
Guida per alla compilazione della domanda
Decreto nomina Commissione Dottorato in Visual and Media Studies
Decreto nomina Commissione Dottorato in Communication, Markets and Society
Call for application XXXVII series a.y. 2021-2022
Bando XXXVII ciclo
Call for application XXXVII cycle
Decreto nomina Commissione Dottorato in Visual and Media Studies
Decreto nomina Commissione Dottorato in Communication, Markets and Society
Contest information
The selection procedure consists of:
-assessment of the candidates' qualifications
- oral test
If mentioned in the call, preceded by a written test.
The Board may award 50 points in total if the selection involves only one test, as follows:
-Evaluation of qualifications 20 points (
13 points min
)
-Oral test 30 points (
20 points min
)
The oral test consist of:
-Discussion of the project presented
-Verification of the candidates’s kwoledge of English (and Italian language for candidates whose mother tongue is not )
-General questions so as to allow them to demonstrate knowledge of relevant disciplinary areas
The pass mark for the test will be
no less than 20 points.
The final score is the sum of the points awarded in the assessment of the qualifications and tests.
The Rector’s decree approving the documents containing the final rankings is published in the section “Rankings”.
2019/2020 Written text
Phd School for Communication Studies
—
Contacts:
tel: +39 02 89141 2843/2321/2844
email:
[email protected]
Rankings
The rankings are published immediately after the examination of the competition documents.
For registration deadlines,follow the deadlines indicated in each ranking.
In the event of vacancies, applicants involved will be contacted by e-mail by the PhD School Sector.
Call XL cycle a.y. 2024-2025 - deadline 31 July h 12.00 (italian time)
Esito valutazione titoli CMS bando ordinario
Decreto approvazione atti CMS ordinario - graduatoria finale
Call PNRR XL cycle a.y.  2024-2025 - deadline 10 July h 12.00 (italian time)
Esito valutazione titoli CMS PNRR
Decreto approvazione atti CMS PNRR - graduatoria finale
Registration
Within the deadline indicated, admitted candidates must submit a fully-completed application for enrolment (sent by the Office).
For successful candidates with a foreign qualification, the diploma must be translated and legally authenticated by the competent Italian representative offices in accordance with the applicable regulations for the admission of foreign students to degree courses at Italian universities or, alternatively, a Statement of Comparability issued by CIMEA.
Non-EU citizens applying for a visa must pre-register on the Universitaly Portal
https://www.universitaly.it/index.php/dashboard
under the heading "international students" in order to apply for an entry visa.

HOME
Research doctorates
Communication, Markets and Society
Doctor in
Communication, Markets and Society
cicloXXXIX
Coordinator:
Course
Admissions
Career
Opportunities
Access to subsequent years
- Page in progress - Page in progress - Page in progress - Page in progress - Page in progress - Page in progress
Fees
The amount of the taxes is established annually by the Board of Directors.
For the academic year 2023/2024, XXXIX cycle, the contribution for access and attendance to the doctoral course was determined in € 1.500,00 for each year and for the entire duration of the course, divided as follows:
I instalment: (at the time of registration) € 800,00 including the amount of €. 100,00. = already paid as a pre-enrolment fee to the competition;
2nd instalment: € 350,00 (by 31 December 2023);
3rd instalment: € 350.00 (by 31 March 2024)
The amount does not include the regional tax for the right to study, currently amounting to €. 140.00 to be paid by both the scholarship holders and the solvents.
The amount of the tax will be confirmed after its definition by the Lombardy Region for the academic year 2023/2024.
Final examination
The academic title of PhD is awarded at the end of the PhD programme, following the positive evaluation of
the thesis.
The procedure for obtaining the title is organised into two phases.
At the end of the three-year period, the thesis, accompanied by a summary in Italian or English, is assessed
by at least two highly qualified professors, who express an analytical judgment on the thesis and propose to
the Phd Board either admission to the discussion or postponement, for a period not exceeding 6 months if
significant additions or corrections are necessary. The thesis is accompanied by a report on the activities
carried out during the PhD and the publications produced.
The thesis produced in pdf format and on USB support must be delivered to the Institutional Affairs Office
within the set deadline.
After the possible period of postponement, the thesis, revised with the requested corrections or
integrations, is in any case admitted to public final discussion, accompanied by a new written opinion of the
evaluators.
The final examination for the achievement of the title consists of a public discussion of the final thesis held
viva-voce by the candidate in front of the Final Exam Commission. At the end of the discussion the thesis,
with a reasoned written report, is approved or rejected. In the presence of results of particular scientific
importance the Commission, by unanimous vote, has the faculty to award special honours, with
recommendation for publication.
With regard to the theses in co-defence, specific procedures are provided for the achievement of the title
and composition of the Commission.
SUBMISSION OF THE FINAL EXAM APPLICATION
Within the published deadline, PhD students admitted to the final exam must upload their thesis to the
Apeiron Repository of the University in PDF format (paper version submission is not required). The thesis
cover page must be outlined according to the model provided by the University.
The following documents must be attached in order to apply for admission to the final exam:
-
Admission application form
(to which a €16.00 stamp must be applied)
- Declaratory for the self-archiving of the doctoral thesis
- Copy of the email proving the thesis online deposit into the Apeiron Repository of the University, click
here
to download the instructions
- Possible
request for the thesis embargo
- Iulm Library clearance
form
- Report of completion of the Alma Laurea questionnaire
- University booklet (for the cycles for which it was intended)
- Badge
- Copy of the payment receipt of €101,38, (the payment has to be done by using the MAV form
available on each candidate personal web page of the "Sportello di Segreteria online")
The admission application form, accompanied by the above-mentioned documents, must be delivered to
the Institutional Affairs Office in compliance with the set deadlines and indicated office hours.
Funds available for doctorates
Each doctoral student, whether a scholarship holder or a solvent, has a budget of not less than 10% of the scholarship available for study and research activities to be carried out in Italy and abroad.
The research budget can be used to reimburse expenses incurred for missions or registrations to conferences, seminars, schools, summer schools, expenses for the drafting of the thesis, expenses for seminars and conferences of external teachers.
Scholarships and income statements
The gross annual amount of the scholarship for attending PhD courses is € 16.243,00
The scholarship is paid on the 27th of each month, in deferred monthly instalments.
It is not possible to combine the doctoral grant with other grants, with the exception of those which may supplement research stays abroad (e.g. Erasmus mobility grants).
The stock exchange is exempt from IRPEF (personal income tax) and is subject only to INPS (Separate Account) social security treatment. If therefore it is the only income, you are not required to submit the declaration.
Every year a single certification (CU) is prepared, which can be consulted online with the personal credentials provided after registration.

HOME
Research doctorates
Communication, Markets and Society
Doctor in
Communication, Markets and Society
cicloXXXIX
Coordinator:
Course
Admissions
Career
Opportunities
Agreements with other universities
One of the main objectives of the University's internationalization process is the creation and consolidation of a network with prestigious universities in order to offer PhD students opportunities for research and professional growth at an international level.
Unisinos
IULM and the Universidade do Vale do Rio dos Sinos signed a framework agreement in May 2019 with the intent to encourage teachers and PhD students to exchange periods at their respective universities to share their experiences in teaching, research and teaching in order to develop possible joint projects.
UCI Irvine
Phd in Visual and Media Studies has started a collaboration with the
Claire Trevor School of Arts
, University of California Irvine, regarding the opportunity to exchange students and teachers. Iulm PhD students will be involved in projects developed within the Trevor School of Arts art galleries, in the design of the new museum and in research activities to be developed within the Department of Media and Design.
Financial benefits
Within the scope of the right to study, a doctoral student is a university student enrolled in a post-graduate training course and is treated in the same way as students enrolled in bachelor’s and master’s degree courses.
The provisions on the right to study provided for by Legislative Decree no. 68 of 29 March 2012 apply to doctoral students.
Please refer to "
Financial Benefits and Scholarships
" to find out more information and check the available
Calls
For further information please write to
[email protected]
Opportunities abroad
Research period abroad
Doctoral students can carry out training and research abroad, at universities or research institutes, for a period of up to 12 months (this period may be extended up to a maximum total of 18 months for joint PhD program).
For stays abroad of more than 15 consecutive days, the amount of the scholarship is increased by 50%.
Click
here
to download the pdf with the guidelines
Co-tutela di tesi (Joint Phd program)
The co-tutela (joint Phd program) involves collaboration between two universities in different countries in order to build a training path for PhD students enrolled at one of the two partner sites.
The PhD student in co-tutela does the thesis at both sites for alternate periods, under the supervision of two tutors. The training course ends with a single final examination after which the title of PhD (dual or joint), recognized in both countries, is awarded.
Co-tutela di tesi (Joint Phd program):
a framework agreement between the universities
a specific agreement for each doctoral candidate who undertakes this course.
The Rectors' Conference of Italian Universities has signed framework agreements for co-tutela di tesi (joint phd program) with France, Germany, Spain and Switzerland. However, it also be activated with other countries subject to the establishment of a framework agreement between the universities.
Researches doctorates and companies
The financing of doctoral fellowships
Companies can collaborate with IULM University to activate doctoral programmes.
The possibility of contributing to the definition of the research and study plan, which can also be partly developed within the company, represents for the company the opportunity to make use of highly qualified resources able to bring and immediately implement both strategic and methodological knowledge.
The interested company defines the doctoral research programme with the University and formalises the funding by agreement.
Visiting period for PhD Students
Students interested in undertaking a visiting period at IULM must submit a request to the Doctoral Board by:
-5 July of each year
-5 December of each year
The PhD student must send the following documents by email:
a) their personal details and the name of the institution to which they belong;
b) their curriculum vitae, professional skills and any other element that allows a complete evaluation of their academic and scientific profile;
c) a description of the training and research activities they wish to carry out at IULM during the period indicated;
d) the period of stay at the University, normally not less than 30 days;
e) the commitment of their University to bear the costs of board, lodging and transport;
f) the name of the internal lecturer of reference (this must be a member of the teaching staff of the PhD course)
In the case of PhD Students, it is the Doctoral Board that submits the proposal for the visiting period to the Senate, in accordance with the deadlines set out in the Regulations for Visiting Academics (28 February and 30 September each year).
Applications will be assessed in March and October and, if approved, an official letter of invitation will be sent to the PhD Student.

