URL: https://www.iulm.it/en/offerta-formativa/master-executive-education/master-universitari/international-tourism-and-hospitality-mith/international-tourism-and-hospitality-mith

Master's & Executive Education
Master's University
International Tourism and Hospitality (MITH)
Scientific Director:
Manuela De Carlo
HOME
Academic Programmes
Master & executive education
University Master's Degree
International Tourism and Hospitality (MITH)
Master's & Executive Education
Master's University
International Tourism and Hospitality (MITH)
Scientific Director:
Manuela De Carlo
Presentation
Program
Cost and enrolment
Master Experience
International, business oriented, multicultural, and entirely in English – IULM University’s 1st level Master in International Tourism and Hospitality (
MITH
) gives you the essential skills to face the radical changes in today’s tourism sector. A faculty of internationally renowned teachers and senior managers of leading companies guide you throughout the innovative program.
MITH
puts your talent into play and helps you accelerate your career in tourism and hospitality.
Language
English
Duration of Classes
6 months
Start
Winter
Formula
Full-time
Headquarter
Milan
Study Visit
Italy / Abroad
Internship
3/6 months
Credits
60
Enrolments
Start your journey as a student at IULM!
Read more
Key Facts
PLACEMENT
51% of graduates hired by their internship host company;
86% of graduates working as tourism professionals within 3 months;
+350 international alumni network in 43 countries;
+ 500 partner companies in educational projects, internships and work placements.
PROGRAM
Intensive degree program in a leading Italian university in Milan;
International faculty and student mix;
Hands-on approach with company visits and lectures with senior managers, giving insights into best practices and cutting-edge management tools;
A choice of specialization in areas essential for the revitalization of tourism:
Revenue Management;
Luxury Marketing and Client Experience; and
Leisure Destinations and Special Events;
1-week study visit in Dubai;
1 month consultancy project to implement innovative projects with partner companies;
6-month customized internship in Italy or abroad within MITH’s 500+ partner company network.
COMPANY VISITS
Dedicated sessions with entrepreneurs or management teams to learn how to:
innovate business models in the tour operator sector, with Asian Trails, Alidays, WeRoad;
implement guest centricity and customize services in luxury hospitality, with the Dorchester Collection Academy, Principe di Savoia and Bulgari;
win a bid for an international congress, with AIM Group;
discover new hospitality models and their development after the Covid crisis, with Airbnb and casevacanze.it;
create advanced technological solutions for the travel sector, with Amadeus;
foster talent and develop new skills for emerging roles, with NH Hotel Group;
deal with change to build a successful career in hospitality, with Mandarin Oriental;
launch an e-commerce campaign for hospitality, with Expedia and DQ&A;
design high value concierge services for the luxury sector, with Top Life Concierge;
apply the tools of design thinking to create innovative visitor experiences, with the Kartell Museum;
explore the distinctive features of an internationally unique concept store, with 10 Corso Como;
develop an open air tourism offer for the luxury segment, with Glamping Canonici di San Marco and FAITA Federcamping;
discuss communication strategies in times of pandemic in the airline industry, with AirDolomiti;
explore the advantages of business-destination partnerships with Swarovski Optik and Costa Edutainment.
SPECIALIZATION
MITH students choose their specialization path from three topics, selected each year according to their timeliness, partner company requirements and job market relevance. In 2023, the choices are 1) Revenue Management, 2) Luxury Marketing and Client Experience, and 3) Leisure Destinations and Special Events.
The specialization course adds great value to your CV and can be combined with a customized internship.
Specialization's program
Objectives
The tourism sector is undergoing a profound transformation. In response to the current industry's challenges, new business models are emerging along with innovative ways of managing traditional businesses; both need state-of-the-art managerial skills and tools.
MITH, working in collaboration with leading tourism companies since 2003, prepares young talents to be the protagonists in this rapidly evolving scenario.
As a MITH student, you are engaged in:
• an active learning approach to develop a range of critical skills: problem solving, adaptive leadership, innovation and teamwork in international contexts, all of which are essential to successful entry into the most sought-after companies.
• a 360-degree view of the tourism sector and its future areas of development, including food, fashion and design, luxury, event management and cultural heritage.
• a customized internship, designed for your attitudes and interests, to accelerate your career in tourism and hospitality.
• earning a further specialization in one of the following areas: Revenue Management, Luxury Marketing and Client Experience and Leisure Destinations and Special Events;
Target
MITH seeks out the best graduates, both Italian and foreign, with an excellent command of English, who wish to accelerate their career in tourism at an international level. Previous work experience is desirable.
Faculty
Abramovich Danny
Senior Marketing Consultant and Founder of MarTech Venture
Agresti Arianna
HR Manager Multiproperty at Marriott International
Bertoli Miriam
Digital & Content Marketing Strategist at Miriambertoli.com
Bozzano Margherita
Tenured teacher
Go
Carlorosi Beatrice
Senior People Partner Southern Europe & USA, NH Hotel Group
d'Angella Francesca
Associate professor
Go
Dal Negro Edoardo
Digital Director at The Dedica Anthology Group
De Carlo Manuela
Full professor
Go
Freddi Massimiliano
Experience design consultant, coach and entrepreneur
Giffin Janice Elaine
Translator, Editor, Course Designer, English Instructor and Language Coach
Govers Robert
Tenured teacher
Go
Inversini Alessandro
Associate Professor at Ecole hôtelière de Lausanne
Mauri Aurelio
Associate professor
Go
Neuhofer Barbara
Professor of Experience Design & Head of Experience Design at Fachhochschule Salzburg
Peres Armando
Tenured teacher
Go
Primerano Fabio
Chief Executive Officer at Prime Group - PrimeStar Invest
Quaratino Luca
University researcher
Go
Sainaghi Ruggero
Associate professor
Go
Scauri Luciano
Tenured teacher
Go
Vannini Maria Cristina
Zennaro Damiano
Head of Advisory Service EMEA at IDeaS Revenue Solutions
Contacts
milan office
milan office
IULM Communication School
Via Carlo Bo, 1 - Milan
[email protected]
Tel: +39 02 891412311
Fax: +39 02 891412371

HOME
Academic Programmes
Master & executive education
University Master's Degree
International Tourism and Hospitality (MITH)
Program
Master's & Executive Education
Master's University
International Tourism and Hospitality (MITH)
Scientific Director:
Manuela De Carlo
Presentation
Program
Cost and enrolment
Master Experience
Closing of registrations
Jan. 10th, 2025
Start
Feb. 3rd,  2025
Study Visit
Dubai
Subject areas
Classroom lessons are divided into 9 teaching modules held or guided by professors from IULM University, visiting professors and noteworthy experts and professionals in the sector.
MITH supports you in achieving your goal – to embark on a successful career in tourism. That's why our partner companies are involved in every phase of the MITH program.
• 0. Introductory courses (7 CFU)
Data Analysis with Microsoft Excel
Communication Skills
Marketing in Hospitality and Tourism
Basic Accounting
• 1. Hospitality Management (6 CFU)
Hospitality Management & CHIA Certification
Experience Design and Service co-creation
F&B Management
• 2. Human Resources Management in Tourism (5 CFU)
Organizational Behavior and Human Resources
Employer Branding and Performance Management
• 3. Financial Analysis in Tourism (5 CFU)
Advanced Accounting
Business Finance and Asset Management
• 4. Digital Marketing and Service Personalization (7 CFU)
Digital Marketing and Artificial Intelligence in Hospitality and Tourism
Online Distribution in the Tourism Sector
SEO, SEM and Digital Strategy in the Hospitality Sector
• 5. Destination Management and Sustainabilty (6 CFU)
Destination Management
Place, Image, Identity and Brand
Sustainable Development
Events Management and Attractions Management
• 6. Specialization (upon choice on each student; 6 CFU)
Revenue Management
Luxury Marketing and Client Experience
Leisure Destinations and Special Events
• 7. Consultancy project (6 CFU)
• 8. Internship/Project Work and Final Exam (12 CFU)
Company visits and meetings with leaders in the tourism sector complete the MITH
hands-on approach, providing insight into best practices and cutting-edge management tools.
SPECIALIZATION
Students complete the teaching program with a specialization in one of the following "hot topics" in the tourism sector:
• Revenue management
• Luxury Marketing and Client Experience
• Leisure Destinations and Special Events
Your selected specialization course can be matched with a customized internship.
CALENDAR
November – January
Online courses: 3 months of e-learning to provide you with basic knowledge and skills required for classroom courses.
February – May
Classroom courses to build a solid knowledge base.
March/April
Study tour in Dubai: meet the key players in the development of a unique destination in the world.
June
Specialization course: a choice among Revenue Management, Luxury Marketing and Client Experience, and Leisure Destinations and Special Events to customize your program with an in-depth analysis of a sought-after area of expertise in tourism and hospitality.
July
Consultancy Project (group work) commissioned by partner companies to apply the tools and skills acquired in the classroom
July – February
Internship: 6 months in Italy or abroad
Study Tour
A study tour in the United Arab Emirates (Dubai) to learn about the impressive development of a world-renowned tourist destination and its recent repositioning. In addition to a rich cultural itinerary, the study tour includes seminars with major local institutions, meetings with managers of important tourism companies and encounters with local entrepreneurs and former students who chose to continue working in Dubai after their internships. Participants will gain in-depth knowledge of the development model and values of the UAE and the opportunities they offer for a career in tourism.
Specializations
The MITH specialization offers students an additional tool to define their professional profile according to interest and aptitude:
• Revenue Management
• Luxury Marketing and Client Experience
• Leisure Destinations and Special Events
REVENUE MANAGEMENT
The Revenue Management specialization enables students to interact with world-class experts and acquire the most advanced tools and models for optimizing sales across many sectors of tourism. At the end of the course, students will apply all they have learned to a real business case and defend their own strategies with the company’s managers.
Modules
:
• Revenue Management
• Forecasting and Total Revenue Management
• The New Frontiers of Revenue Management
• Final project and assessment
Faculty:
• Silvia Cantarella – Acrobat Consultancy - Italy
• Edoardo Dal Negro – BlinkUp Srl - Italy
• Cindy Heo – EHL - Switzerland
• Paolo Muzzeddu – IHGroup – Italy
• Simone Puorto – Travel Singularity – Italy
• Luciano Scauri – SKL International Hotel Consulting – Italy
• Damiano Zennaro – IdeaS – Italy
• Alexandro della Croce – Starhotels – Italy
Companies presentation:
OTA Insight; D-edge; Novotel; Radisson Hotel Group; Sabre; Oaky.
LUXURY MARKETING AND CLIENT EXPERIENCE
The course content provides in-depth understanding of the luxury industry, its role in society and its best practices. Lectures focus on differing cultural perspectives regarding luxury the uniqueness of its goods and services, and a luxury brand’s consistency with its identity and values. Students will also gain familiarity with related issues including sustainability, multiculturalism, marketing and customer experience.
This specialization is developed in partnership with Hotel Principe di Savoia and Dorchester Collection Academy.
Modules
:
1. Theories and Fundamentals of Luxury
2. Functional Areas of Luxury
3. Sectoral Areas of Luxury
4. Final project and assessment
Faculty:
• Beth Aarons – Dorchester Collection Academy – London (UK)
• Raffaella Bossi Ferrarini – Iulm University – Milan (Italy)
• Michele Coletti – Grenoble Ecole de Management, Politecnico di Milano – Milan (Italy)
• Fabio Duma – Zurich University of Applied Sciences – Zurich (CH)
• Patrick Fields – Gucci Garden – Florence (Italy)
• Serena Rovai – Excelia Business School - La Rochelle (France)
• Dennis Valle – PwC, Former Versace CMO and Dolce and Gabbana VP –Milan (Italy)
• Ian Phau, Curtin University, Luxury Brand Retailing Centre – Bentley (Australia)
Companies presentation:
Dorchester Collection Academy; Hotel Principe di Savoia; Altagamma; laMilanesa; 10 Corso Como; Rancé1795; Kartell Museo; Prada; Brioni Kering; Cantine Ferrari.
LEISURE DESTINATIONS AND SPECIAL EVENTS
The course explores leisure destinations and special events. Students learn about communication and marketing for multifaceted tourist locations that include “an attraction” (such as museums, theme parks, water parks, zoos, aquariums, botanical gardens, historic houses, historical monuments, theatres, sports arenas, etc.) along with restaurants, retail, and accommodations. The specialization includes multiple field studies, and concludes with a hackathon in which the group applies their acquired skills to solve an existing problem for a real leisure facility.
Modules:
• Introduction to the Leisure Industry
• Strategic Marketing, Communications and Advertising
• Operations Management
• Special Events Management
• Human Resources and Leadership
• Revenue Management, Budgeting and Planning
• Field Study / Final Project
Company presentations:
Disneyland Paris (FR), Europa-Park (DE), Efteling (NL), Walibi Holland (NL), Merlin Entertainments (UK), Compagnie Des Alpes (FR), Gardaland Resort (IT), ZOOM Torino (IT), Acquaworld (IT), Museo Nazionale della Scienza e della
Tecnologia Leonardo da Vinci (IT), Fort Fun (DE), Liseberg (SE), Tivoli Gardens (DK), Alshaya (KW), Luna Park Coney Island (USA), International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions (USA), and many more.
Training on the job
MITH helps you to build your professional network through a range of hands-on activities: company visits, on-site training days, job seminars and workshops with senior managers and entrepreneurs of leading tourism and hospitality companies. These preferential opportunities make it possible for you to draw upon the experience of professionals, demonstrate your talent and focus on high-potential placement areas.
Partner companies from the most recent edition are:
Dorchester Collection Academy, Hotel Principe di Savoia, Starhotels, Hyatt, Mandarin Oriental, Marriott, NH Hotel Group, Accor, Bulgari, AIM Group International, AirBnB, Expedia, Booking, Amadeus, Asian Trails, WeRoad, AirDolomiti, TopLife Concierge, Visit Dubai, Gardaland, Diesel, ACBC, Valentino, Rancé1795, OTA Insight.
Our partner companies provide valuable input for the formulation and development of consultancy projects, an important component to evaluate students’ work in the master. In the final teaching module of the program, students are engaged full-time for a month under the guidance of a Master teacher in a consultancy project commissioned by a partner company. By applying their acquired knowledge and analytical tools, students provide solutions to be implemented in the business organization.
CHIA Certification
The Hospitality Management module includes training sessions to earn the Certification in Hotel Industry Analytics (CHIA). CHIA is the only hotel-related certification for industry professionals focused on analytics.
Offered by the American Hotel & Lodging Educational Institute (AHLEI) and STR, CHIA attests a thorough knowledge of foundational metrics, definitions, formulas, and methodologies used by the hotel industry.
Core content includes:
● Hotel Industry Analytical Foundations
● Hotel Math Fundamentals
● Property Level Benchmarking (STAR Reports)
● Hotel Industry Performance Reports
Internship
MITH
supports you in designing your career with a 6-month internship tailored to your profile and selected according to 3 criteria:
Matching the experience to your skills and aptitudes
Value of the internship as a learning experience
Possibility of starting your own professional network
Following a MITH internship:
86% of graduates work as tourism professionals within 3 months
51% of graduates hired by their internship host company
MITH operates in close connection with the hospitality and tourism industry to ensure your internship adds value to your CV, which is shared with MITH’s business network. Companies who have recruited MITH students become loyal recruiters creating future job opportunities.
MITH internships cover specific roles according to company needs and take place in different areas of the tourism industry: hotel chains, cruise companies, airlines, MICE businesses, travel agency networks, destination management companies and consulting firms specializing in tourism.
MITH
STUDENTS SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES
Have a look at some recent success stories of our students on the social channels of the MITH Master: Linkedin, Facebook, Instagram, Youtube.
Linkedin:
https://www.linkedin.com/company/976182/admin/
Facebook:
https://www.facebook.com/MasterHospitalityandTourismManagement/
Instagram:
https://www.instagram.com/mith_iulm_university/
Youtube:
https://www.youtube.com/user/MTMExperience
Research and consultancy projects
July 2023 “Strategic Revenue Optimization: A Comprehensive Analysis of Pricing Strategies and Distribution Channels” (Starhotels)
June 2023 “Developing a New Communication Strategu for Gardaland Resort Hackathon” (Gardaland Resort)
July 2022 “The evolution of luxury for future generations A journey through sustainability, wellness and diversity and customer experience” (Dorchester Collection Academy and Hotel Principe di Savoia)
July 2022 “Developing a New Event for Luna Farm” (Zamperla - The Amusement Rides Company)
July  2021 “The Evolution of Luxury for the Future Generations. A Journey through Sustainability, Ethics and Digitalization” (Dorchester Collection Academy)
July 2021 “Experience Brand Identity to Boost Customer Relationships” (Kartell Museo)
December 2019 “The Need for New Skills in Tourism Companies and the Role of University Education” (research presentation)
May 2019 “Employer Branding and Recruitment Strategies in the Hospitality Industries in Italy” (consultancy project) and “ Analysis of New Competences and the professional profile in the tourism industry” (research)
July 2018 “Tourism and the Creative Economy: Wine Tourism” (research and consultancy project)
July 2017 “The Impact of Hoxell on Online Reputation”
July 2017 “Destination Italia Bike Experience: a Pilot Project in Lombardy”, “Brand Identity and Destination Development: Guidelines for a New Visitor Center in Valpolicella”, “Digital Customer Centricity in Hospitality” (consultancy projects)
December 2016 “ Tourism Development, New Competences for Companies and University Education” (research)
July 2015 “Expo 2015: Italy and Milan. Visitors’ Point of View” (research)
February 2012 “Tourist Experience Design for destination development: an Analysis of European tourist portals” (research)

HOME
Academic Programmes
Master & executive education
University Master's Degree
International Tourism and Hospitality (MITH)
Cost and enrolment
Master's & Executive Education
Master's University
International Tourism and Hospitality (MITH)
Scientific Director:
Manuela De Carlo
Presentation
Program
Cost and enrolment
Master Experience
Cost
Italian students: € 12.000,00
Application fee*: € 100,00
1st Installment € 1.900,00 enrolment
2nd Installment € 2.000,00 (December, 15th 2024)
3rd Installment** € 4.000,00 (March, 15th 2025)
4th Installment € 4.000,00 (May, 15th 2025)
International students: € 14.400,00
Application fee*: € 100,00
1st Installment: € 1.900,00 enrolment
2nd Installment: € 2.000,00 (December, 15th 2024)
3rd Installment**: € 5.200,00 (March, 15th 2025)
4th Installment € 5.2000,00 (May, 15th 2025)
The pre-enrollment fee is deducted from the first installment of the tuition fee if the enrollment is confirmed. The fee is non-refundable to students who do not confirm their enrollment or pass the selection.
* 1st installment + € 16,00 stamp duty in virtual amount
** 3rd installment + € 16,00 stamp duty for the release of the diploma
(Ministry of Finance authorization - Department of Revenue - Regional Directorate of Revenue for Lombardy - Milan branch - Third Department - Prot. N. 3/9467/99 of 2/11/99)
OVERDUE PAYMENT
Overdue payment of university installments are charged a late fee of € 75.00.
* to the first instalment must be added €16 for stamp duty
** to the third instalment must be added €16 stamp duty for stamp duty on the degree certificate
(authorization by the Ministry of Finance - Department of Revenue - Regional Directorate of Revenue for Lombardy - Detached section Milan - Third Department - Prot. No 3/9467/99 of 2 November 1999).
Financial Aid
IULM University, in collaboration with Banca Popolare di Sondrio, supports high-level specialist training with specific financial assistance formulas and subsidized loans. For information, interested parties may apply directly on campus at the central office, contact the bank by phone +39 (02) 818 8861 or write to
[email protected]
.
application and enrolment
To apply for admission, click on the following address:
http://servizionline.iulm.it/.
If you are already enrolled at the IULM, enter your username and password to access the personal page; enter the secretarial section and select Admission / pre-enrollment test.
If you are a student from another university, proceed with the registration and access the personal page; enter the secretarial section and select Admission / pre-enrollment test.
From your personal page:
1. select the master (you can submit more than one for different courses)
2. upload the following documents in pdf format: (excluding students from IULM degree courses)
valid identity document (identity card, passport, driving license)
tax code, if not already present on the identity document (only for Italian citizens)
degree certificate / enrollment with exams taken (complete with scientific-disciplinary sectors) or alternatively a substitute declaration available at this link. (only students not from IULM University)
curriculum vitae
3. upload any language certificates (optional)
4. print the bank payment form of the admission fee for the test
Application for admission is confirmed only after verification by the Banking Institute of the payment of the application fee of € 100.00 deductible from the first installment of the enrollment fee, in case of confirmation of enrollment and after verification of the curricular requirements for admission to the Masters.
The fee is non-refundable if admission/registration is unconfirmed.
SELECTION
Upon reception and preliminary verification of all required documents, the student office contacts the candidates to arrange a selection interview with the coordinator of the Master. The purpose of the interview is to evaluate the motivation and personal aptitudes of the candidates.
ENROLLMENT
After passing the selection interview, the candidate can proceed with the enrollment in the Master. You will be contacted by the Administrative office to receive all the instructions and indications on the documents to be submitted to complete your registration. The first installment must be paid upon enrollment. Subsequent installments will be paid according to the terms and deadlines shown on the Master's web page.
Each installment must be paid with the payment form (PagoPA), downloadable from the personal page of the online secretarial services and payable at any bank or online.
For information:
[email protected]
- 02 891412330/2311

HOME
Academic Programmes
Master & executive education
University Master's Degree
International Tourism and Hospitality (MITH)
Master Experience
Master's & Executive Education
Master's University
International Tourism and Hospitality (MITH)
Scientific Director:
Manuela De Carlo
Presentation
Program
Cost and enrolment
Master Experience

