URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/cos/chemistry/chemistry-bs

Bachelor of Science in Chemistry
With a B.S. in chemistry from UNO, you’ll come to understand the foundational scientific principles that make up our universe—and participate in the process of advancing human knowledge. Chemistry is a central field of scientific study that plays a part in everything around us, explaining the physical and biological phenomena that fill our world. With a solid understanding of this exciting discipline, you can become a sought-after voice in the scientific community and use your insights and expertise to create a better world through chemistry.
The UNO chemistry department is designed to let you get to know your professors individually, with a 10:1 student-to-faculty ratio and plenty of opportunities to join faculty members in their research. You’ll have access to state-of-the-art teaching labs and instrumentation. You can follow in the footsteps of recent UNO chemistry graduates who have co-authored presented or published research. And you’ll be able to explore how chemistry interacts with countless other disciplines—physics, math, biology, medicine, environmental science, and more—through hands-on learning as early as your freshman year.
Complete your bachelor’s degree in chemistry here at UNO and help lead the world toward deeper scientific understanding.
Request Information
IN THIS SECTION
Chemistry
Message from the Chair
Undergraduate Program
Pre-Pharmacy
Graduate Programs
Undergrad Research Opportunities
Chemistry Stockroom
Seminars
Student Organizations
Faculty
Contact Us
Major and Minor Opportunities
B.S. in Chemistry
The Bachelor of Science in chemistry from UNO is a rigorous, in-depth program that will allow you to develop strong core knowledge in the foundations of chemistry, as well as deeply specialized knowledge in a concentration of your choice. With numerous opportunities to participate in original research and learn using state-of-the-art instrumentation, the program will leave you prepared to actively participate in the scientific community—or to pursue an advanced degree at top-tier universities across the country.
UNO’s B.S. in chemistry degree is a 120-credit-hour degree program, including 39 general education credits, 48 other required credits, and 33 chemistry-specific credits.
The degree program is fully certified by the American Chemical Society (ACS). You can find more information about degree requirements
here
.
Minor in Chemistry
To earn a minor in chemistry, students must complete at least 20 credit hours of chemistry coursework and earn a C or better in each 1000- and 2000-level science course. These 20 credit hours must include CHEM 1007, 1008, 1017, and 1018, and at least 10 hours must be at the 3000 level or above.
Honors in Chemistry
To be admitted into the Honors in Chemistry program, students must have at least a 3.25 cumulative GPA and a 3.5 GPA in chemistry. Before graduation, honors students will complete at least six credit hours of CHEM 3099, including an oral defense of their honors thesis.
B.S. in Chemistry: Concentrations
To make sure that your bachelor’s degree in chemistry is as closely tailored to your goals as possible, we offer five different concentrations in specific areas of interest. Learn more about each concentration below, including specific course requirements.
Biochemistry
The biochemistry concentration focuses on the chemical processes of living organisms at the cellular and molecular level. Biochemistry is the foundation for many critical advancements in medicine, agriculture, biotechnology, and more.
Requirements
Chemical Physics
This concentration includes the disciplines of physical chemistry and atomic/molecular physics. An exciting and varied field, chemical physics includes topics ranging from spectroscopy and thermodynamics to quantum mechanics.
Requirements
Forensics Chemistry
By concentrating in forensics, you’ll be able to turn your interest in DNA analysis into actionable skills, preparing you for a successful career in federal, state, or county crime labs as well as numerous other options.
Requirements
Materials Chemistry
A focus on materials chemistry will give you a deep understanding of the design, synthesis, and characterization of both existing and new forms of matter—from nanomaterials to polymers and beyond.
Requirements
Medicinal Chemistry
This highly practical and exciting concentration will prepare you to use your chemistry knowledge to synthesize new pharmaceuticals, or to improve the production processes for existing medications.
Requirements
Research Opportunities
Research and hands-on learning are a fundamental part of UNO’s B.S. in chemistry program. When you have the opportunity to conduct research, you gain a true working knowledge of the instrumentation, techniques, and methodologies you’ll use after graduation as a member of the scientific community. That’s why we help every interested chemistry student find a way to work research into their academic experience—sometimes as early as freshman year.
As an undergraduate student in chemistry, you have three options for conducting research with UNO faculty and Ph.D. candidates:
Earn course credit for research by enrolling in CHEM 3094. You will be expected to spend about 10–15 hours per week on your research project. At the end of the semester, you will deliver a written and oral report of your findings to your research group.
Carry out research as a part-time job under the supervision of UNO faculty. You and your faculty advisor will determine a set number of hours per week to dedicate to your research project.
Participate in the Advanced Materials Research Institute (AMRI) Summer Outreach research program. During this summer program at AMRI, you’ll participate in research projects involving synthesis, characterization, and application of nanoparticles and their composites and assemblies. You’ll also participate in scientific and professional development seminars, research ethics sessions, and field trips to local industrial and related sites.
Internship Opportunities
Along with the research opportunities available to all B.S. in chemistry students, UNO can also connect you to hands-on internships that let you strengthen your knowledge in chemistry by putting classroom lessons into practice. To complete an internship for credit, enroll in CHEM 3091 and spend at least three hours per week on-site at your internship.
Internships are available through a number of UNO partners, which in the past have included:
Eurofins Central Analytical Laboratories
New Orleans Police Department Crime Lab
St. Tammany Parish Crime Lab
Thionville Laboratories
USDA Southern Regional Research Center
If you’re interested in securing a chemistry internship for an upcoming semester,
contact the Department of Chemistry
to learn about the opportunities currently available.
What You’ll Learn
Chemistry is one of the most central fields in all the sciences. As you work toward a Bachelor of Science degree in chemistry, you’ll develop the skill set and knowledge base you need to understand the workings of the universe—and transform that knowledge into the new discoveries and practical solutions our world needs.
With a B.S. in chemistry from UNO, you’ll:
Master core chemistry concepts, including stoichiometry, states of matter, atomic structure, molecular structure and bonding, thermodynamics, equilibria, and kinetics.
Master foundation-level chemistry concepts in the five subdisciplines of chemistry: analytical chemistry, biochemistry, inorganic chemistry, organic chemistry, and physical chemistry.
Master in-depth topics in chemistry that require you to integrate concepts, think critically, and use problem-solving skills.
Function as a chemist through a semester-long research experience or internship in a professional setting. You’ll be responsible for written and oral reporting as well as satisfactorily accomplishing research or professional laboratory tasks.
Demonstrate laboratory skills during a minimum of 400 hours of laboratory performance.
Develop strong skills in problem-solving, chemical literature and information management, laboratory safety, communication, teamwork, and ethics.
Once you complete your B.S. in chemistry, you’ll have the theoretical and practical knowledge you need to participate in the scientific process, and to apply your expertise in real-world scientific discoveries.
Student Learning Outcomes
Student Learning Outcomes specify what students will know, be able to do, or be able to demonstrate when they have completed a program of study.
View Outcomes
Sample Courses
Forensic Chemistry
Foundations of Biochemistry
General Chemistry
Instrumental Analysis
Materials Chemistry
Medicinal Chemistry
Principles of Physical Chemistry
View Course Catalog
What Can You Do with a Bachelor’s Degree in Chemistry?
Academic Professions
Analytical Chemistry
Chemical Engineering
Education
Forensic Science
Professional School: Pharmacy, Dental, Medical
Ph.D. Programs
Research Science
And More!
Get Involved
UNO Chemistry Club
The Chemistry Club (or Chem Club) is open to all UNO undergraduates, not just those working toward a B.S. in chemistry. In addition to providing opportunities for those interested in chemistry to socialize outside the classroom, the Chem Club also regularly participates in community service and outreach events throughout the year. To learn more about getting involved in the Chem Club, contact the department at
chemistry@uno.edu
.
Alpha Chi Sigma Chemistry Fraternity
The UNO chapter of Alpha Chi Sigma is a professional fraternity for students specializing in the chemical sciences. The fraternity brings together students pursuing a wide variety of chemistry-related careers, and it offers many ways to get involved: social events, volunteer opportunities, and more.
Undergraduate Teaching Assistant (UTA) Program
While TAs are traditionally graduate students, highly qualified and trained undergraduates at UNO have the opportunity to act as teaching assistants in general chemistry and laboratory courses and recitation sessions. To get involved as a UTA, you’ll first need to complete the Undergraduate Teaching Apprenticeship (CHEM 3092). After that, you’ll work as a paid TA under the supervision of either a faculty member or a graduate student. If you have questions about the UTA program, direct them to
chemistry@uno.edu
.
Ready to Get Started?
A Bachelor of Science degree in chemistry from UNO can set you on the path to a successful career of scientific exploration and discovery, and there’s no time like the present to take the first step toward earning your degree. Apply today, or
contact us anytime
with questions!
Apply Now
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence