URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/coe/civil/undergraduate

Civil and Environmental Engineering
Undergraduate Programs
The Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at UNO offers instruction leading to the degrees of (i) Bachelor of Science (B.S.) in Civil Engineering and (ii) Bachelor of Science (B.S.) in Urban Construction Management.
IN THIS SECTION
Civil and Environmental Engineering
Overview
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Teaching Labs
Research Laboratories
Faculty
Contact Us
Civil Engineering
Bachelor of Science (B.S.)
The B.S. in Civil Engineering prepares the student with knowledge and experience to plan and design buildings, roadways, and a variety of infrastructure systems. At UNO, over a period of four years, courses are offered in the areas of environmental engineering, geotechnical engineering, structural engineering, surveying, and water resources engineering. The graduates of this degree will be prepared to make a real and visible contribution to society with innovative and modern skills in civil engineering, whether they pursue a graduate degree or launch their professional career right away. Read more about the B.S. in Civil Engineering degree
Learn More
Urban Construction Management
Bachelor of Science (B.S.)
The B.S. in Urban Construction Management degree at UNO will provide a holistic approach to urban construction management and will include courses in engineering, management, history and urban studies. The students graduating with this unique degree will specialize in urban residential planning, design, and sustainable construction management techniques. They will also be knowledgeable and proficient in preservation and restoration of historically significant housing, monuments, structures, facilities, and related construction features. Read more about the B.S. in Urban Construction Management degree.
LEARN MORE
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence