URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/coe/engineering-management

IN THIS SECTION
Online Engineering Management
Degree Requirements
Systems Innovation Engineering
Societies
Contact Us
Visit Us
Apply to UNO
Online Master of Science in Engineering Management
Request Information
Apply NOW
The 100% online Master of Science (MS) in Engineering Management is tailored to engineering professionals eyeing a leadership role within their specialized fields. A collaborative effort between the
Dr. Robert A. Savoie College of Engineering
and the
Henry Bernstein College of Business Administration (COBA)
, this career-focused degree program trains students to manage multiple projects and organizations in today’s technology-oriented environment.
Applicable across a broad scope of engineering disciplines, this master’s degree offers technical and financial insight into how complex engineering projects should be designed, operated, and managed. For professionals who previously earned a bachelor’s degree in engineering, mathematics, or a related STEM field, the online MS in Engineering Management expands upon familiar undergraduate concepts and exposes students to the high-level decision-making skills needed to successfully oversee a team of engineers.
Next Steps
Apply
Degree Requirements
Advising: Paul Herrington, Ph.D.
About the MS in Engineering Management Degree
The MS in Engineering Management combines the best of both engineering and business worlds. The Dr. Robert A. Savoie College of Engineering at the University of New Orleans (UNO) is known in the region for its affordable, quality career-ready education. Beyond the courses offered, the program opens up opportunities for government-, industrial-, and academic-related research and career advancement via executive-level industry connections.
Intertwined with graduate-level engineering concepts, COBA’s world-renowned, internationally recognized program introduces students to financial, leadership, and information systems fundamentals. Students learn how management professionals guide and shape projects large and small and, in the process, develop stronger quantitative analysis, financial management, and administrative skills needed to lead teams and streamline efforts.
During the course of the MS in Engineering Management program, students will:
Demonstrate advanced knowledge of engineering management methods used in technology-based settings and apply it strategically through a range of business functions;
Utilize modern tools for effective, efficient engineering management;
Successfully put together and present a capstone project; and
Conduct graduate-level research in engineering theory and practice.
Earn an MS in Engineering Management Completely Online
The MS in Engineering Management pairs all the conveniences online learning affords working professionals with the quality and resources of UNO’s graduate programs.
Students access lectures and manage coursework through the Canvas online portal, web conferencing, and compressed video.
On a full-time schedule, students can finish their degree within two years.
Working adults can complete classes, exams, and projects without pausing their careers or spending time commuting to a campus.
Made for the ambitious professional, the online MS in Engineering Management blends the academic rigors of a master’s degree with a customized, targeted curriculum that’s pertinent and meant to enhance your engineering career.
A mix of synchronous and asynchronous courses allows students to finish all assignments at their own pace yet interact with their instructors and fellow classmates.
Student Learning Outcomes
Student Learning Outcomes specify what students will know, be able to do, or be able to demonstrate when they have completed a program of study.
View Outcomes
MS in Engineering Management Course Structure—30 Credit Hours
Students working toward the MS in Engineering Management must earn 30 credit hours, which encompass core and elective coursework and a required capstone project. Students have a choice of two course structures:
Non-thesis
Non-thesis coursework allows a student to omit the research-based thesis project. This track divides the 30 credit hours between core courses (18 credit hours), approved electives (nine credit hours), and the capstone project (three credit hours).
Thesis
Thesis students also begin with 18 credit hours of core courses. However, students on this track allot six credit hours out of their approved electives toward a thesis, a hands-on research-based project. The remaining six credit hours go toward approved elective classes. For more information, reference the Graduate School’s
Dissertation and Thesis Requirements
.
To determine which path better aligns with your schedule and goals,
review all degree requirements
.
Core Courses
Laying down cross-disciplinary fundamentals, core courses present advanced engineering and introductory management concepts through both theoretical and real-world examples. Classes build upon engineering basics and touch on business-oriented topics such as common operational theories, practices, probability, supply and demand, project planning, and workflow processes.
Explore the current list of core courses
or browse the Engineering catalog for
full course descriptions
.
Electives
No two engineering students have identical career paths. UNO allows our MS in Engineering Management students to customize their degrees, and in turn, electives cover several specialized topics that align with your experiences, skill sets, and goals. Furthermore, students may select from non-engineering electives through COBA for exposure to operational, personnel, and other higher-level management topics.
Review the
current list of all available electives
, then browse the following catalogs for complete course descriptions:
Engineering Management
Civil and Environmental Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Electrical Engineering
Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering
Capstone
Both thesis and non-thesis students in the MS in Engineering Management program must complete a capstone project. This independent-study project is held during the final semester and requires department approval. Individual or groups of students may be assigned a particular topic or area, or students may base their projects on existing work experience. To receive credit, students must present and defend their final project to a team of faculty members.
Concentration—Systems Innovation Engineering
Both thesis and non-thesis students have the option of selecting a concentration in Systems Innovation Engineering, in which elective courses focus on systems-based topics across engineering, computer science, and business. To receive credit, students must complete MANG 5750 and two relevant electives.
Learn more about this concentration and its requirements
.
Engineering Management Career Outlook
An MS in Engineering Management augments your already-extensive engineering knowledge and offers an invaluable credential that indicates your readiness to tackle major projects and direct a team from the get-go.
The need for engineering managers is steadily growing across several subfields, according to figures from the
Bureau of Labor Statistics
. Locally, Louisiana’s rapidly rising Silicon Bayou presents graduates with several opportunities at startups and established technology companies. On a global level, this degree competitively sets students up to succeed in the following types of roles:
Biomedical engineering manager
Design engineering manager
Electrical engineering manager
Process engineering manager
Manufacturing engineering manager
Construction engineering manager
Project manager
Systems engineering manager
Engineering analysis and consulting
Architectural manager
Logistics manager
Apply to the Online MS in Engineering Management Program
Individuals interested in applying to UNO’s online MS in Engineering Management program must follow all Graduate School admission requirements. The Dr. Robert A. Savoie College of Engineering additionally requires:
A bachelor’s degree in engineering, mathematics, or applied science from an accredited institution;
A 3.0 GPA for all undergraduate and, if applicable, previously completed graduate coursework.
International students must further demonstrate English proficiency with a minimum TOEFL score of 79, IELTS score of 6.5, or PTE score of 58.
Review the
Dr. Robert A. Savoie College of Engineering’s complete list of requirements
, and get started on your
online application
.
Build Your Leadership Potential with an MS in Engineering Management Degree
You’ve found your calling—so take the next steps to realize your goals. For more information about the MS in Engineering Management program, reach out to
Paul Herrington, Ph.D.
; contact the Dr. Robert A. Savoie College of Engineering at 504-280-6178; or
fill out a request form.
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence