URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/colaehd/ehd/mmd

IN THIS SECTION
Teacher Education
Elementary Education
Elementary Education & Mild/Moderate Disabilities
Secondary Education
Master of Arts in Teaching (M.A.T.)
Master’s of Education in Curriculum and Instruction (M.Ed)
Add-On Certifications
PRAXIS Information
request info
Elementary Education & Mild/Moderate Disabilities
Dual Certification (Integrated to Merged) Approach, Grades 1-5
Dual Certification (Integrated to merged) certification (IM) is the initial certification option in the mild/moderate disabilities program. Coursework for IM certification is designed to prepare practitioners who are highly effective in teaching students with mild/moderate disabilities, teaching elementary curriculum, or teaching in a content area (English/language arts, mathematics, science, social studies). Undergraduate students can earn certification in both elementary education and mild/moderate disabilities in grades 1 through 5 while earning a bachelor degree.
Student Learning Outcomes
Student Learning Outcomes specify what students will know, be able to do, or be able to demonstrate when they have completed a program of study.
View Outcomes
Degree Requirements
The description of degree requirements for elementary education and mild/moderate disabilities provides an overview of courses required to complete the degree program.
"Integrated to Merged" Requirements
Field Experience
The elementary education and mild/moderate disabilities program represents a performance-based model of personnel preparation, which includes a number of field experiences associated with the attendant coursework. These experiences culminate in the year-long residency. Information on the field experience requirements of each course may be found in each course's syllabus. For more information, please see the web page for field experience.
More information on field experience
Candidate Assessment Information
The Elementary teacher education program requires candidates to complete a variety of assessments as they progress through the program of study.
Read more
Current Student
Degree Requirements
Four Year Plan of Study
Field Experience
Candidate Assessment Information
Certification
Master of Arts in Teaching
For students who have already attained a bachelor's degree from an accredited institution, the Master of Art in Teaching degree is an alternate means to achieving certification. Student may earn certification in mild/moderate disabilities and elementary education.
Learn more
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence