URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/colaehd/ehd/elementary-education

IN THIS SECTION
Elementary Education
Degree Requirements
Four Year Plan
Visit Us
Apply to UNO
Elementary Education
Grades 1-5, B.S. Degree and Teaching Certificate
Elementary Education (B.S.)
The elementary education program prepares candidates for teaching in grades 1-5 and leads to an initial Louisiana teaching certificate as well as a degree. The program focuses on the knowledge, skills, and dispositions associated with the effective education of elementary-aged children. To earn a
Certificate in Early Childhood Education
you can obtain a degree in Elementary Education and pass Praxis Exam 5621 (PLT Early Childhood).
Student Learning Outcomes
Student Learning Outcomes specify what students will know, be able to do, or be able to demonstrate when they have completed a program of study.
View Outcomes
Degree Requirements
The degree requirements for elementary education is an overview of courses required to complete the degree program.
Elementary Education Requirements
Field Experience
The elementary education program represents a performance-based model of personnel preparation, which includes a number of field experiences associated with the attendant coursework. These experiences culminate in the year-long residency. Information on the field experience requirements of each course may be found in each course's syllabus. For more information, please see the web page for field experience.
More information on field experience
Candidate Assessment Information
The elementary teacher education program requires candidates to complete a variety of assessments as they progress through the program of study.
Read more
Current Students
Four Year Plan of Study
Field Experience
Candidate Assessment Information
Certification
There are two pathways to achieving teaching certification in Elementary Education:
Bachelor's Degree
The college offers an undergraduate program of study for students who have not yet attained a bachelor's degree.
Master of Arts in Teaching
For students who have already attained a bachelor's degree from an accredited institution, the alternate means to achieving certification is by pursuing the Master of Arts in Teaching (M.A.T.) degree.
Learn more
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence