URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/colaehd/ehd/hphp

Human Performance and Health Promotion (B.S.)
The College of Education and Human Development offers a Bachelor of Science in Human Performance and Health Promotion (HPHP). This program prepares students for professions that enhance individual and community wellness and promote health and physical activity. Completing an HPHP degree proves the skills to make a difference in the health and wellness of individuals or communities. The degree program, however, does not offer students a certification in teaching.
Request Info
IN THIS SECTION
Human Performance & Health Promotion
Degree Requirements | Exercise Physiology
Degree Requirements | Health Promotion
Printable Degree Requirements
Four Year Plan of Study | Exercise Physiology
Four Year Plan of Study | Health Promotion
Visit Us
Apply to UNO
Student Learning Outcomes
Bachelor of Science in Human Performance and Health Promotion
Student Learning Outcomes
Student Learning Outcomes specify what students will know, be able to do, or be able to demonstrate when they have completed a program of study.
VIEW Exercise Physiology
VIEW Health Promotion
Current Students
Printable Degree Requirements
Four Year Plan of Study: Exercise Physiology
Four Year Plan of Study:
Health Promotion
Concentrations
This program offers concentrations in Health Promotion and Exercise Physiology.  Both concentrations culminate in a semester-long internship in the community during which students gain applied experience under the supervision of professionals in the community.
Exercise Physiology
Students in the exercise physiology concentration gain advanced knowledge of kinesiology, motor learning, and exercise physiology to learn how the body responds to exercise and how these concepts can be applied to training individuals to reach their physical potential, for both health outcomes and athletic performance. Students learn to use physical activity as a tool in health, fitness, and sports settings.
Degree Requirements
Health Promotion
Students in the health promotion concentration learn the skills to develop and evaluate heath programs delivered to individuals or groups in the community. The emphasis is on developing strategies to prevent illness and to improve the well-being of individuals and communities. Students learn a variety of strategies to develop, implement, and evaluate health promotion programs resulting in skills that can be applied in a variety of health settings.
Degree Requirements
HPHP Exercise Science Lab
The Human Performance and Health Promotion program has a state-of-the-art exercise science lab which includes a Lunar full-body DEXA scanner, a Parvo metabolic unit and treadmill, an EKG, and Monarch ergometers for Wingate test and VO2max measurements. Students have access to this clinical equipment to learn how to use and interpret the results of their work and/or research.
Human Performance and Health Promotion Internship Program
Students have the opportunity to enroll in a structured/supervised program that offers hands-on experience in either physical therapy, occupational therapy, kinesiology, body conditioning, or health promotion.  The interns gain fundamental knowledge and experience that can become a starting point for a successful career.  Interns also earn college credit for an intern placement while gaining real-world experience outside of the classroom and ascertain the expectations of employment in their chosen field.
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence