URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/colaehd/ehd/higher-education-med

IN THIS SECTION
Educational Leadership Graduate Programs
Educational Administration (Ph.D.)
Educational Leadership (M.Ed.)
M.Ed. in Higher Education
Alternative Certification
Visit Us
Apply to UNO
Higher Education Administration ONLINE Program
Request Information
Online M.Ed. in Higher Education Administration
The goal of the Masters in Higher Education Administration program is to prepare generalist practitioners with a broad understanding of the role of educational leaders in post-secondary education. The program is designed for both recent college graduates and mid-career professionals seeking a program of study that focuses on multiple areas of educational leadership. Through reflective study designed to inform effective practice, the program will encourage students to apply what they learn in class to their current or future work as practitioners/administrators in colleges and universities.
One of the strengths of the program is that all classes meet virtually, drawing students who bring a diversity of professional perspectives and experiences to the classroom. Classes currently primarily meet in a synchronous format in the evenings, with the program transitioning to a fully asynchronous format beginning in January 2024. The online learning offers flexibility and the ability to have classes from anywhere, improves access, and easily fits into the schedule for full-time workers. Additionally, the program offers rolling admissions and accepts applicants in the Fall, Spring, and Summer semesters Finally, as part of an online program, students are exempt from paying the non-residence fee (regardless of location).
Graduates of the program typically work as administrators in colleges and universities in areas such as admissions and retention, residential life, career services, multicultural affairs, financial aid/affairs, student affairs, international student services, and a variety of other areas.
Next Steps
How to Apply
Degree Requirements
Key Features of the Online Masters in Higher Education Administration Program
Open up multiple career options with a general higher education curriculum designed to provide the knowledge and skills for effective administration in a variety of functional contexts—student affairs, Finance and Administration, enrollment management, academic affairs, and assessment.
Get to know a diverse faculty from a variety of academic and professional backgrounds and experience in postsecondary institutions and educational organizations.
Engage in classroom learning with an emphasis on leadership and practice in metropolitan educational settings.
Experience instruction grounded in an understanding that educational practice and theory interact to enrich knowledge and practice.
Enjoy integrated online learning opportunities to accommodate the schedule of working professionals.
Connect with faculty and doctoral students to engage in scholarly research.
Create a lifelong learning pathway with our curriculum that enables a seamless transition to Ph.D. program in Educational Administration at UNO.
Student Learning Outcomes
Student Learning Outcomes specify what students will know, be able to do, or be able to demonstrate when they have completed a program of study.
View Outcomes
Questions?
Program Coordinator
: Dr. Chris Broadhurst
Email
: cbroadhu@uno.edu
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence