URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/colaehd/la/film-and-theatre/film-arts

Film Arts
The film arts program is designed to give students experience in film production. This course of study includes courses in film aesthetics, digital technology, film history, and script analysis as well electives such as documentary production, cinematography, editing, and sound design.
Film arts trains the complete, independent filmmaker, to give our students the best chance of success in the highly technical, creative, and competitive profession of film-making.
Advanced 8K finishing suite
IN THIS SECTION
Undergraduate Program
Film Arts
Degree Requirements | Film Arts
Theatre Arts
Degree Requirements | Theatre Arts
Four Year Plan of Study
Honors in Film and Theatre
Minor in Film and Theatre
Printable Degree Requirements
Degree Requirements
The degree requirements for film arts is an overview of courses required to complete the program.
Degree Requirements
Student Learning Outcomes
Student Learning Outcomes specify what students will know, be able to do, or be able to demonstrate when they have completed a program of study.
View Outcomes
Learning Environment
Students have the opportunity to explore many aspects of visual storytelling, from high-tech digital post-production to documentary and dramatic film production and live performance. We also share our building with the Department of Music and Jazz Studies, creating an intimate synergistic atmosphere within a broad spectrum of the performing arts.
Current Students
Printable Degree Requirements
Four Year Plan of Study
Advising Schedule
Minor
Honors
Internships
4K projection exhibition facility
1 of 2 : Computer labs
Facilities
We have one of the most technologically advanced film programs in the country, with 4K digital cameras, a full complement of lighting gear, a grip truck, and 4K digital post-production editing, audio suites, color correction suites and a sound stage which is fully equipped and dedicated to student and department shoots.  We also have a 4K theater for screening student films.
Students learn and use the following software:
Avid Medial Composer and Pro Tools
DaVinci Resolve
Adobe Creative Cloud
Movie Magic Budgeting and Scheduling
Cameras and Production Gear
We have a wide range of cameras including 4K Panasonic, Canon and RED cameras as well as Arri and Cinema Product 16mm cameras. Traditional and Fluorescent lights and Tascam, Sennheiser and Audio Technica sound equipment.
1 of 7 : 4K edit suite for students
Audio finishing suite
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence