URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/colaehd/la/film-and-theatre/theatre-arts

IN THIS SECTION
Undergraduate Program
Film Arts
Degree Requirements | Film Arts
Theatre Arts
Degree Requirements | Theatre Arts
Four Year Plan of Study
Honors in Film and Theatre
Minor in Film and Theatre
Printable Degree Requirements
Theatre Arts
Theatre arts program is designed to give students experience in theatrical production.This course of study includes courses in acting, technical production, script analysis, play-writing, and the study of modern and contemporary theatrical production.
The purpose of theatre arts is to develop a meaningful voice to our artistry and to share that talent in the community and educational arenas. We combine theory and practice for a solid foundation in this highly demanding discipline.
Request Info
Student Learning Outcomes
Student Learning Outcomes specify what students will know, be able to do, or be able to demonstrate when they have completed a program of study.
View Outcomes
Current Students
Printable Degree Requirements
Four Year Plan of Study
Advising Schedule
Minor
Honors
Internships
Degree Requirements
The degree requirements for theatre arts is an overview of courses required to complete the program.
Degree Requirements
Learning Environment
We are the only university in the country to have won two American College Theatre Festival National Play-writing Awards AND two National Irene Ryan Acting Awards. Our Theatre Arts program is so rewarding because it is so demanding. We are fully accredited by NAST (National Association of Schools of Theatre). We collaborate with the American Film Institute conducting workshops.
Facilities
We have the Thrust Theatre with 225-seat capacity along with a 65-seat proscenium lab and outdoor arena housing public performances each semester. Our scene and costume shops and rehearsal rooms provide all we need to accommodate our busy production schedule.
Experience
Four stage productions per year, plus dark-night original script readings provide several opportunities to test your skills on our stages. From Shakespeare to original scripts, there is always a challenge waiting.
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence