URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/colaehd/la/forl/undergrad

IN THIS SECTION
Foreign Languages
Concentration in French
Concentration in Spanish
Courses
Certificate Programs
Degree Requirements - French
Degree Requirements - Spanish
Foreign Languages Minor
Four Year Plan of Study (French)
Four Year Plan of Study (Spanish)
Graduate Program
Honors in French
Honors in Spanish
M.A. Frequently Asked Questions
Mission Statement
Online M.A. in Romance Languages
Printable Degree Requirements
Questionnaire
Resources and Advising
Undergraduate Programs
Contact Us
Faculty
request info
Undergraduate Programs
B.A. in Romance Languages
Romance Language majors may fulfill part of their requirements in a university international program such as "Glories of France" (Montpellier) or the UNO Summer School in Costa Rica (San Ramón). Some internships are available and may be used to earn academic credits by working in the community and using the language of choice, e.g., with the Consulate of France, The Franco-American Chamber of Commerce, the Red-Cross.
The department runs a state-of-the-art Foreign Language Lab and offers routinely courses on-line. Three of the faculty members in Spanish have authored the first digital interactive textbook created in the USA for basic language acquisition in Spanish.
Our graduates work in careers in teaching, public relations, advertising, tourism, translation (including for the State Department). The best of them continue their studies for our graduate degree of Master of Arts in Romance Languages.
Student Learning Outcomes
Student Learning Outcomes specify what students will know, be able to do, or be able to demonstrate when they have completed a program of study.
FRENCH: View Outcomes
|
SPANISH: View Outcomes
Current Students
Printable Degree Requirements
Advising Contacts and Guide
Concentration in French
Concentration in Spanish
Minor in Foreign Languages
Related Information
Study Abroad Programs
UNO-Innsbruck
International Summer School
Resources
All resources are in PDF format.
Tutorial for Graduating Majors (French)
Tutorial for Graduating Majors (Spanish)
Concentrations
French
The Department of Language and Literature offers a B.A. in Romance Languages with a French concentration.
Concentration in French
Spanish
The Department of Language and Literature offers a B.A. in Romance Languages with a Spanish concentration.
Concentration in Spanish
Minor
The Department of Language and Literature also offers minors in French or Spanish.
Minor requirements
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence