URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/colaehd/la/english/grad/online-ma

IN THIS SECTION
M.A. in English
Admissions
Degree Requirements
Frequently Asked Questions
Graduate Assistantships
M.A. in English
Online M.A. in English
Research
request info
facebook
The Online M.A. in English
The English Department’s online Master of Arts program is designed to make the UNO M.A. in English more accessible to students. It provides students with advanced subject-matter expertise in American literature, British literature, and rhetoric/professional writing. To earn this degree, students must complete 33 credit hours of coursework, all of which can be completed online. Up to nine of these hours may be taken on campus. The degree can be completed in 2-3 years, depending on how many hours a student takes and whether or not summer courses are taken.
Most students in the program hold undergraduate degrees in English, but students with degrees in other fields may be admitted upon condition that they take additional coursework to provide sufficient background.
Core Courses
Students begin their study with four core courses (12 total hours):
Introduction to Graduate Studies in English (ENGL 6280)
A course in British Literature,
A course in American Literature,
A course in Rhetoric or a course in Writing.
Concentrations
The Online Master of Arts program requires students to choose one concentration: Literary and Cultural Studies or Professional Writing.
For each of these concentrations, a student works with the Graduate Coordinator to choose three additional courses beyond the core (9 hours).
Electives
In addition to the core and concentration, a student in the Online M.A. chooses four additional courses (12 hours) to complete the 33 hours for the degree.
Portfolio and Optional Thesis
The capstone requirement for the M.A. in English is a portfolio. A sample portfolio could include a reflection essay, a revised research paper from a course, a curriculum vitae (or academic résumé), and a teaching statement and syllabus or a professional writing portfolio
Students (particularly those planning to pursue a Ph.D.) may write a thesis in addition to the portfolio. The M.A. thesis (usually 30-40 pages long) is written under the supervision of an advisor assigned to the student by the Graduate Coordinator. Thesis defenses can be held either on campus or long distance via web conference.
Career
The Master of Arts program is sufficiently flexible to accommodate a range of academic interests and to help prepare students for several different career paths. Most of our graduates have gone on to choose one of four options: to pursue the doctoral degree; to teach in secondary schools, junior colleges, colleges, and universities; to undertake further professional training, most often in law; or to work as professional or technical writers.
Careers in English
|
Research
Next Steps
How to Apply
Cost of Study
Advising
Have Questions?
Dr. Elizabeth Steeby
Coordinator of Graduate Studies
Phone: 504-280-6273
Email:
e
steeby@uno.edu
Graduate English Office
Phone: 504-280-6276
Email:
gradenglish@uno.edu
Resources
M.A. in English
M.A. Fact Sheet
M.A. Student Handbook
M.F.A. in Creative Writing
Low-Residency M.F.A. in Creative Writing
Current Course Offerings
UNO Graduate School
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence