URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/ids/online

IN THIS SECTION
BIS Online
Admissions Information
BIS Online Courses
Technology Requirements
Contact Us
Visit Us
Apply to UNO
Bachelor of Interdisciplinary Studies - Online
Mission Statement
Interdisciplinary Studies (IDS) is a rigorous and unique degree program that offers students the versatility to design academic plans through the process of integrative learning. Indeed, Integrative Learning Plans (ILP) and personal academic advising are the hallmarks of the Bachelor of Interdisciplinary Studies (BIS) degree program. Working closely with their advisors, IDS students develop ILPs comprised of two- or three-discipline study plans that integrate multicultural and multidisciplinary perspectives. To meet UNO students’ diverse social, cultural, and educational needs, IDS offers both on-campus and online credit-earning opportunities.
What Can I Do with an IDS Degree?
The real question is: What do you want to do? Each Integrative Learning Plan is customizable to meet your academic needs and professional interests. In the section below you will find examples under each ILP title that represent only a few ways in which an IDS degree can be structured and utilized. Each IDS graduate creates his or her own unique learning and career experiences.
Behavioral Studies
Students interested in service-oriented careers, such as counselors, social workers, teachers, and other helping professions, find this ILP attractive.
Business in Urban Society
This ILP appeals to students with varied interests who may or may not have completed prior business coursework. Some are interested in the psychosocial aspects of business. Others wish to pursue MBAs through an alternative pathway. After earning their BIS degrees, these students often establish careers in corporate and non-profit organizations.
Community and Leadership Development
Students interested in community service and leadership careers often choose this ILP. Many go on to careers in law enforcement, emergency medical services, and working with non-profit organizations. Many find fulfillment in community organizing.
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Completion Program
Degree Completion Program for students with an Associate’s Degree.
IDS Integrative Learning Plans
Focus areas in Behavioral Studies, Business and Urban Society, Health Care Business Studies, Cultural Studies, and Education in Urban Society.
Transfer Credit
Allied Health Professionals- We accept your transfer credit. Complete your four-year degree with us!
Flexibility
The flexibility of IDS online course work and experienced academic advising are the hallmarks of Bachelor’s of Interdisciplinary Studies degree program.
“IDS is the kind of major that you should think about joining if you want a non-traditional, personalized, college learning experience.”
~Travonte Norbert
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence