URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/colaehd/la/cw-lr-mfa

Creative Writing Online MFA
The Creative Writing Workshop Online MFA is our non-resident graduate program in fiction writing, nonfiction writing, and poetry writing, which culminates in the MFA degree. The Online MFA is taught by the same award-winning faculty of writers as the resident program.
Apply Now
UNO Online MFA earns #1 ranking as best online program in the country from Best College Reviews! Ranking based on variety of course offerings, high quality of faculty, student and alumni success, and low cost.
IN THIS SECTION
Creative Writing Online MFA
Contact Us
Current Course Offerings
Current Students
Degree Requirements
Faculty
Financial Support
How to Apply
Prospective Students
Resources
Summer Residency
About Creative Writing Online MFA
Request Info
How It Works
UNO's innovative Online MFA program gives students from all over the world a chance to study with our award-winning faculty through online courses in spring and fall semesters. A highly ranked studio/research program, UNO's MFA degree trains students through writing workshops and literary studies. With 45 required hours, students can complete the degree by going full time for 5 semesters. Students also have the ability to go part time if work and or other obligations do not allow for full time study. As all Online MFA students pay "in state" tuition, and are not responsible for "non-resident" fees, UNO's program remains one the most flexible and affordable options for serious writers to earn the terminal degree in their field.
How It's Different
Unlike many Low Residency or distance learning MFA programs in which students are paired with a single faculty member for the duration of their studies, UNO's Online MFA is organized into standard semesters, providing students the benefit of exposure to a variety of professors in each genre over the course of their studies as well as continuous interaction with their classmates. Strong, often life-long writing relationships result from this approach, so that students leave the program with a writing community to support their growth after graduation.
The Fall Application Deadline is February 1.
The Spring Application Deadline is October 1.
Degree Requirements
Financial support
How to Apply
Related Links
UNO Graduate School
Creative Writing Workshop (Resident) MFA
Creative Writing Books
Bayou Magazine
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence