URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/cos/mathematics/undergraduate

Mathematics (B.S.)
The Department of Mathematics at the University of New Orleans  offers an undergraduate program designed to provide a sound preparation for graduate study as well as prepare students for careers in business, government, industry, and teaching.
Apply
Request Info
IN THIS SECTION
Mathematics
Undergraduate Program
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificate Program
Undergraduate Certificate Program
Mathematics Catalog
Resources
Faculty
Contact Us
Undergraduate Degree in Mathematics
Mathematics - the study of number, order, and patterns - is a beautiful discipline whose rich history
spans over 2,500 years
. Mathematics is fascinating in its own right, but it also forms the core foundation of any STEM discipline, and our graduates have gone on to successful careers in a wide variety of industries. Accordingly, our undergraduate program is designed to provide a sound preparation for graduate study as well as prepare students for careers in business, technology, industry, government, and teaching. The specific courses required to major in mathematics can be found at the
degree requirements page
, and advanced undergraduates will be interested in the list of
upper level courses taught in recent years
(note that 5000-level courses are generally open to undergraduates, who enroll at the 4000 level). Eligible students can elect to participate in our
honors program
, and it is also possible to
minor in mathematics
.
Student Learning Outcomes
Student Learning Outcomes specify what students will know, be able to do, or be able to demonstrate when they have completed a program of study.
View Outcomes
Areas
Actuarial Science
Actuarial Science is the study of risk and uncertainty in a financial setting, and is useful in all areas of business. The Actuarial Science courses at UNO are specifically designed to help students pass tests to become an actuary.
Industrial and Applied Mathematics
Industrial and Applied Mathematics is a broad term used to describe many areas of mathematics. In industrial and applied mathematics courses at UNO, students will study differential equations, mathematical modelling, numerical analysis, and optimization. The goal is to provide a breadth of training that will help students in many applied settings.
Pure Mathematics
Mathematics underlies all areas of modern life. Carl Frederick Gauss referred to it as "The Queen of Sciences." No matter what your field is, students will find pure mathematics courses at UNO of interest.
Statistics
Statistics looks at the collecting, analyzing, and explaining all types of data.
Minors in Mathematics
The Department of Mathematics offers students two minors in mathematics. Students may choose a minor in Mathematics or Actuarial Science. See our complete list of minors and requirements.
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence