URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/coe/mechanical/undergraduate

Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering
With a bachelor of science in mechanical engineering from UNO, you can play a key role in the development of virtually any object—the opportunities are nearly endless. That’s because mechanical engineering is one of the broadest, most in-demand, and most exciting fields in today’s economy. Mechanical engineers have assisted in the design and manufacture of almost every object and system we use today, from the smallest sensor to the largest satellite. And if you’re a creative problem-solver who never shies away from a challenge, this career could be perfect for you.
The B.S. in mechanical engineering will give you one-on-one attention from our exceptional faculty, as well as access to the very latest technologies and lab facilities. You’ll build a holistic set of skills across multiple disciplines so you can approach every problem with the right set of tools. You’ll explore your own areas of interest, learning about the petrochemical, aerospace, and manufacturing industries to discover your own niche in this diverse field. And you’ll emerge prepared for a successful mechanical engineering career in New Orleans, Louisiana, the region, or the world.
Earning your bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering will set you up for a lifetime of scientific and personal exploration—and we’re ready to begin the journey when you are.
IN THIS SECTION
Mechanical Engineering
Objectives and Outcomes
Undergraduate Program
Graduate Programs
Facilities
News
Faculty
Contact Us
Program Educational Objectives
Program educational objectives describe what graduates are expected to attain within a few years after graduation and are based on the needs of the program's constituencies. Graduates from the Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering program will:
Advance professionally, either through employment or progress toward an advanced degree, by applying their technical knowledge and abilities.
Attain positions of increasing responsibility through employing effective workplace skills and the professional practice of engineering.
Student Learning Outcomes
Graduates from the Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering program will acquire knowledge, skills, and professionalism as they progress through the program. Upon graduation, our students meet the following student learning outcomes:
an ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics
an ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors
an ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences
an ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts
an ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives
an ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions
an ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies.
Accreditation
The Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, https://www.abet.org, under the commission's General Criteria and the Program Criteria for Mechanical Engineering and Similarly Named Programs.
Current Students
Degree Requirements
Four Year Plan of Study
Curriculum Flowchart
Student Organizations
COE Honors
University Catalog
Ready to Get Started?
A bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering will prepare you for an exciting, hands-on career that leaves a tangible impact on the world. It’s a challenging, rewarding path of study—and there’s no better time to begin than right now. If you’re ready to begin your Bachelor of Science in mechanical engineering, apply today—or
contact us anytime
for more information.
Apply  NOw
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence