URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/colaehd/la/music/undergraduate

IN THIS SECTION
Music
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Program
Faculty and Staff
How to Apply & Auditions
Opportunities and Affiliations
Creative Work
Campus Experience
Scholarships and Awards
Undergraduate Program
Bachelor of Arts in Music
The Department of Music houses a Bachelor of Arts degree where students can choose to concentrate in four areas of study, Composition, Jazz Studies, Music Studies and Performance.
The University of New Orleans is accredited by the National Association of Schools of Music. The Bachelor of Arts Degree is a four-year/120 credit hour degree designed to prepare students for entry in to the fields of music performance, business, engineering, and as a foundation for future graduate study.
APPLY NOW
Concentrations
Current Students
Printable Degree Requirements
Four Year Plan of Study
Minor in Music
Current Student Forms
Advising
Composition
The Composition concentration utilizes private lessons, group seminars, and core courses to develop the student's individual creative voice. Through study with world-class faculty and guests, students are equipped with the skills required of the 21st Century composer.
Learn More
Jazz Studies
From the Frenchmen St. scene to cutting-edge festivals, New Orleans is a vibrant, creative musical laboratory with performance opportunities on-and off-campus. Our students become masters by working with masters in the birthplace of Jazz.
Learn More
Music Studies
Music Studies is designed as a flexible, broad-based liberal arts degree with an emphasis on the study of music, including vocal training. Core courses provide a solid grounding to prepare for professional success in fields such as studio engineering or music business.
Learn More
Performance
The performance concentration is designed for those who wish to prepare for a professional career in performance or other creative pursuits. The program focuses on development of technique, musicianship and repertoire in both instrumental and vocal.
Learn More
Minor in Music
The Music Department offers two options for students who wish to pursue a minor in music. Students electing option two must audition on their instrument or voice to be accepted into that option.
Learn about our music minor
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence