URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/coe/name/undergraduate

Bachelor of Science in Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering
The shipbuilding industry is deeply embedded in New Orleans history, more so than in almost any other American city—and with a B.S. in naval architecture and marine engineering (NAME) from UNO, you’ll be part of the latest chapter in that history. Our program is the perfect home for students with a passion for marine architecture and an approach to problem-solving that’s equal parts analytical and creative. If that sounds like you—and if you want to pursue your goals at one of the country’s most well-respected programs—UNO is the place for you.
Studying for your NAME degree will prepare you for an in-demand career designing boats, ships, and offshore structures, along with all of their internal systems. Your skills will be transferrable to all parts of the marine industry, no matter where your interests may take you. And our students regularly receive full-time job offers before they even graduate, going on to lead long, successful careers. No wonder Bankrate ranked a B.S. in naval architecture and marine engineering the No. 1 most valuable major for today’s students. When you earn your degree with us, you’ll make sure your career has its sea legs right from the start.
Request Information
Apply Today
IN THIS SECTION
Naval  Architecture  and  Marine  Engineering
About NAME
Objectives and Outcomes
Undergraduate Program
Graduate Program
NAME Facilities
Student Organizations
Academic Common Market
Faculty
Program Educational Objectives
Program educational objectives describe what graduates are expected to attain within a few years after graduation and are based on the needs of the program's constituencies. Graduates from the Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering program will:
Design, analyze and optimize marine vessels, offshore structures, and related systems in the marine environment.
Direct, supervise, and make important decisions considering technical, economic and environmental factors.
Effectively communicate and collaborate in multidisciplinary teams, demonstrating leadership, integrity and respect for diverse perspectives.
Actively engage in lifelong learning and professional development, adhering to ethical standards and professional responsibilities and contributing to the advancement of the field of naval architecture and marine engineering.
Student Learning Outcomes
Graduates from the Bachelor of Science in Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering program will acquire knowledge, skills, and professionalism as they progress through the program.  Upon graduation, our students meet the following student learning outcomes:
an ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics.
an ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors.
an ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences.
an ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts.
an ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives.
an ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions.
an ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies.
Accreditation
The Bachelor of Science in Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, https://www.abet.org, under the General Criteria and the Naval Architecture, Marine Engineering, Ocean Engineering, and Similarly Named Engineering Program Criteria.
Current Students
Printable Degree Requirements
Four Year Plan of Study
Curriculum Flowchart
Student Organizations
University Catalog
Ready to Get Started?
A Bachelor of Science in naval architecture and marine engineering will put you on the path toward an exciting, fulfilling career in a high-demand field—and there’s no better time to start than right now. Apply today!
Apply Now
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence