URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/colaehd/la/philosophy/online

IN THIS SECTION
Philosophy
Why Philosophy?
Undergraduate Program
Online B.A. Program
Courses
Scholarships & Awards
UNO Philosophical Society
Faculty
Contact Us
see flyer
Online B.A. in Philosophy
ALL Online Majors Pay In-State Tuition!
Online majors pay the in-state rate regardless of where they live and whether they are enrolled full-time or part-time!
Is this program right for you?
The University of New Orleans offers one of the only online Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) degrees in Philosophy in the country. All of our online PHIL courses are created by the department's Philosophy faculty － the very individuals who teach the face-to-face PHIL courses on campus.
This program is intended for students who want to pursue a B.A. degree in Philosophy, but due to work commitments, family obligations, or geographical distance, cannot take courses at UNO in the traditional manner. Online majors outnumber regular majors in our Philosophy B.A. program. Currently, our online majors are scattered across
18
states and
4
different countries:
This program is for anyone who desires to earn a B.A. degree in Philosophy.  No prior courses in Philosophy are required. Nevertheless, it is
strongly
recommended that applicants would have completed at least
some
college before applying. Most of our online majors entered needing only a year or two of full-time study to finish earning a B.A. degree ... or their second degree.
Our
Scholarships & Awards
offer an attractive financial incentive for graduating with a B.A. in Philosophy from UNO. And as it is possible to complete
ALL
degree requirements online, this is also a program for any post-baccalaureate student who desires to earn an
additional
degree. P
ost-baccalaureate students need only one year of courses (30 credits) from UNO to earn an additional degree! Also, besides
the $1,000
Carl Muckley Award
we give to
EVERY
Philosophy major upon graduation, every post-baccalaureate major qualifies for our
Norton Nelkin Scholarship
($1,000) to support their final semester of study leading to a B.A. in Philosophy.
Courses are delivered via Canvas + Panopto
UNO offers different kinds of distance learning courses. Some are
synchronous
classes requiring students to login at a specific site at a specific time. Online classes are
asynchronous
courses where students are not required to login at a specific time. Almost all of the distance learning courses offered through this program are online classes. To be sure, assignments will need to be submitted by specific times on specific days. But the asynchronous nature of the lectures gives each online student maximum flexibility when it comes to managing their time to complete course content. So too does the way in which our courses are delivered.
Canvas
is the Learning Management Software UNO uses to deliver course announcements, documents, guidelines, and all secure content. Canvas is also used for securely submitting quizzes, essays, exams, and other assignments for grading. It is also used for participating in online forums. Canvas is not used to host multimedia lectures.
Doing so would bog down the UNO server. Instead, we use
Panopto
, which is integrated with Canvas. Basically, Panopto hosts the video lectures streamed through links on a course page in Canvas. Those lectures will
also
be available via the Panopto app on a mobile device. Thus, all our course material can be accessed wherever you are and whatever you are doing ... driving, walking, waiting, whatever. This gives each of our online students maximum flexibility when it comes to accessing and completing course content.
Online PHIL Courses
All Philosophy majors must complete at least
33
credit hours in PHIL courses, at least
15
of which must be 3000-level or higher, and each major must complete the following core courses:
PHIL 1101: Introduction to Logic
PHIL 2201: Ethics
PHIL 2311: History of Ancient and Medieval Philosophy
PHIL 2312: History of Modern Philosophy
PHIL *4**:   (any course whose second number is '4' is in the core area of metaphysics & epistemology)
Besides completing PHIL 3030, which is the capstone course taken one's final semester, nothing else must be done to meet the Philosophy portion of the
B.A. Degree Requirements
. This gives our majors quite a bit of flexibility when it comes to which PHIL courses they take.
The program offers at least
15
credit hours in online PHIL courses each semester (summer, fall, and spring), including both lower-level and upper-level courses. The following is the list of online PHIL courses currently in rotation:
PHIL 1000: Introduction to Philosophy
PHIL 1101: Introduction to Logic
PHIL 2096: Independent Study in Philosophy
PHIL 2201: Ethics
PHIL 2215: Social and Political Philosophy
PHIL 2222: Philosophy of Sex and Love
PHIL 2311: History of Ancient and Medieval Philosophy
PHIL 2312: History of Modern Philosophy
PHIL 2411: Philosophy of Language
PHIL 2450: Philosophy of Mind
PHIL 3030: Individual Senior Seminar
PHIL 3101: Advanced Logic
PHIL 3232: Medical Ethics
PHIL 3260: Philosophy and Film
PHIL 3301: Philosophy of Plato
PHIL 3302: Philosophy of Aristotle
PHIL 3332: British Empiricism and the 18th Century
PHIL 3333: Philosophy of Kant
PHIL 3334: German Idealism and the 19th Century
PHIL 3350: Darwin and the Evolution of Thought
PHIL 3400: Metaphysics
PHIL 3415: Phenomenology and Continental Philosophy
PHIL 3450: Philosophical Psychology
PHIL 3480: Philosophy of Religion
PHIL 3511: Existentialism
PHIL 4205: Environmental Ethics
PHIL 4027: Philosophy of Heidegger
PHIL 4094: Independent Study in Philosophy
PHIL 4430: Philosophy of the Natural Sciences
As new courses are developed, they will be put in the rotation of our online offerings so that online majors will have every opportunity to enroll in new courses every semester.
Online majors are able to enroll in special sections of online courses reserved just for them. Those section numbers are
585-589
. And as the number of online majors and programs increases, so too will the number of "seats" and sections reserved just for online majors.
How to apply
To be admitted to the program, an applicant must meet the minimum requirements for admission to UNO. Those requirements vary depending on whether the applicant will be a first year freshman, transfer student, international student, returning student, or post-baccaluarate student (see
Admissions
). Beyond what UNO requires for admission, the online B.A in Philosophy program also requires the following:
Application Deadline
Summer 2024
: 05/23/2024
Fall 2024
:  08/8/2024
Spring 2024
:  12/28/2023
Access to the Internet
Compliance with UNO's
Technology & Software Requirements
for distance learning courses
The discipline, dedication, and desire necessary to complete a degree online
Applying for this program requires completing the
UNO Application
online via
Admissions
. There are
two
options for the Philosophy major. Make sure that you select the
Philosophy-Online
option.
Tuition and fees
For the current table of costs, visit the bursar's page on
Tuition and Fees
. The cost of the program depends on whether you will be attending full-time or part-time.
NOTE
:
ALL
of our online majors will pay the resident tuition rate regardless of where they live! (Most of our online majors live outside Louisiana.)
This is a quality program committed to excellence in education through a distance learning environment that is enriched by diverse experiences, cultures, and perspectives.
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence