URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/cos/physics/undergraduate

Physics (B.S.)
The Department of Physics awards a Bachelor of Science (BS) in Physics which provides
students with a high quality, broadly-based education. Physicists are typically employed in high-
tech, research and development positions in industry, government laboratories or education. For
more information on careers in Physics, check out the
American Physical Society's
website for
career pages
for physics students and those interested in career opportunities with a physics
degree. There are nine hours of science or engineering electives plus 19 additional free electives
which gives students the flexibility to choose a minor or to tailor their education to their career choice.
Apply
IN THIS SECTION
Physics
Undergraduate Program
Graduate Programs
Research
Seminar Schedule
Outreach Programs
Physics Clubs and Societies
Physics Tutoring Center
Faculty
Contact Us
Undergraduate Physics Program
Student Learning Outcomes
Student Learning Outcomes specify what students will know, be able to do, or be able to demonstrate when they have completed a program of study.
View Outcomes
Current Students
Printable Degree Requirements
Four Year Plan of Study
Physics Tutoring Center
Minor
Honors
Course Descriptions
Advising: cseab@uno.edu
Degree Requirements
The degree requirements for physics is an overview of courses required to complete the degree program.
Degree Requirements
Undergraduate Research
There are many opportunities for undergraduates to perform research in our research labs.
Check out our research page to find out about the theoretical and experimental projects going on
in our department. Contact the individual faculty members to find out about opportunities for paid
undergraduate research positions or doing research for credit.
Department of Physics Research
Minor in Physics
An undergraduate minor in physics may be obtained by completing 18 credit hours in physics
with a grade of C or better in each course. The last nine hours must be earned at UNO and
courses must be approved by the Department of Physics. Upon completion of degree
requirements, the minor in physics is listed on the student's transcript.
See requirements for minor
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence