URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/colaehd/la/political-science/undergraduate

IN THIS SECTION
Political Science
Undergraduate Program
Master of Public Administration
Accelerated BA/MPA
UNO Survey Research Center
Faculty and Staff
Contact Us
Undergraduate Political Science
Request info
Bachelor of Arts in Political Science
The Department of Political Science at the University of New Orleans offers a wide range of undergraduate courses leading to the B.A. in Political Science. Student had the option of including the concentration in Pre-Law. The department is composed of 8 full-time faculty members. Information about each is provided on this website.
Graduates from the Department of Political Science at the University of New Orleans have entered a wide range of fields including the law, federal government service, state and local government, business, interest groups, journalism, and pre-collegiate and collegiate education. For more information and careers on political science, we invite you to explore the
American Political Science Association
homepage.
Student Learning Outcomes
Student Learning Outcomes specify what students will know, be able to do, or be able to demonstrate when they have completed a program of study.
View Outcomes
Current Students
Four Year Plan of Study
Honors
Minor
Pre-law
Degree Requirements
Degree requirements for political science is an overview of courses required to complete the degree program.
Degree requirements
Minors
The Department of Political Science offers a minor in political science. View what courses are required to complete the minor.
Requirements for minor
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence