URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/coba/programs/hotel-tourism-management-mso

Executive Online Master of Science in Hospitality & Tourism Management
For Determined Executives
Our Executive Online Master of Science in Hospitality and Tourism Management program is customized to fit the distinct needs of professionals already working in the hospitality and tourism industry.
You've worked hard, and you're ready to advance to the next level in your career. In our Executive Online Master of Science in Hospitality and Tourism Management program, we act as the conduit, connecting you to opportunity, and the catalyst that sparks your ideas into action.
APPLY TODAY
Request INfo
IN THIS SECTION
Graduate Programs
Executive Online Master of Science in Hospitality & Tourism
How to Apply
Master of Science in Hotel, Restaurant and Tourism Management (On-Campus)
Visit Us
Apply to UNO
About the Program
In our program, you'll engage in a condensed 12-month online curriculum that consists of 10 classes. You'll enhance your problem-solving and decision-making skills while conducting exciting research that propels the industry forward. This is a program of action taught by experienced professors of the Lester E. Kabacoff School of Hotel, Restaurant, and Tourism Administration, who know your needs to make our program to be directly applicable to your daily experience and future success.
Ready? Apply Now!
Focused on practical, real-world experience
No GRE required
Convenient & flexible, 100% online program on demand
Tailored to busy, working professionals
Earn your degree in 12 months
Classes taught by industry-leading professionals
Program Time Line
You'll take five 8-week sessions in one year.  A potential study plan is presented below for a tentative program that begins in January.
Spring Semester (4 courses; 12 credits)
Session One
HRT 6001 Survey of the Hospitality and Tourism Industry
HRT 6495 Special Topics in Hospitality and Tourism Management
Session Two
HRT 6203 Marketing Applications for the Hospitality and Tourism Industry
HRT 6300 Hospitality and Tourism Finance and Revenue Management
Summer Semester (2 courses; 6 credits)
Session Three
HRT 6250 Tourism Destination Development
HRT 6102 Technology for Hospitality and Tourism Management
Fall Semester (4 courses; 12 credits)
Session Four
HRT 6200 Hospitality and Tourism Operations Analysis
HRT 6205 Change Management for Hospitality and Tourism
Session Five
HRT 6202 Hospitality and Tourism Research Methods
HRT 6301 Hospitality and Tourism Industry Strategic Management
Scholarships, Awards and Certificates
You can apply for
financial support
, and a wide range of scholarships and awards are available for our outstanding students. In addition, you upgrade your skills with industry relevant micro-certificates alongside this program.
Discounted tuition available for applications received before December 1st.
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence