URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/coba/programs/marketing-bs

Bachelor of Science in MarketinG
With a B.S. in marketing from UNO, you’ll be ready to enter the fast-paced, creative world of marketing—and make a real difference in how consumers think about your future organization. The study of marketing is the study of connections and behaviors: how people, brands, and businesses interact to create the biggest benefit for everyone involved. It’s an essential field for those who want to succeed in business—or anyone who wants to understand how and why people make decisions.
As you work toward your B.S. in marketing, you’ll learn about the foundational strategic and analytical theories that influence consumer behavior, in both the public and the private sector. You’ll find out how today’s most successful marketers reach their customers, exploring both classic techniques and emerging approaches. And because the one constant in marketing is constant evolution, you’ll learn how to adapt effectively to changing markets and consumer preferences—so you can guide your future organizations forward with confidence.
Request Info
IN THIS SECTION
Management and Marketing
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Program
Honors in Marketing
Faculty
Contact Us
Visit Us
Apply to UNO
Majors and Minors
Bachelor of Science in Marketing
The B.S. in marketing degree from UNO is designed to prepare you for a successful marketing career in both the private and public sectors or to enter the most well-respected graduate programs in business and marketing. You’ll master the fundamentals of marketing through both theoretical and hands-on work, and you’ll also dive into focus areas including consumer behavior, strategy development, market research, and more. You’ll also have the opportunity to experience how marketing interacts with larger organizations through the department’s for-credit internship program.
UNO’s Bachelor of Science degree in marketing is a 120-credit-hour program including 39 general education credits, 51 other required credits, and 30 marketing-specific credits. More information about degree requirements, including specific required courses, can be found
here
.
Bachelor of Science in Marketing: Sales Concentration
Knowledge of professional sales is a valuable addition to the skill set of anyone in the marketing profession—adding another dimension to their understanding of customer behavior, persuasion techniques, and the ability to make a tangible difference on a company’s bottom line. If you’d like to add a concentration in professional sales to your B.S. in marketing, you can complete nine credit hours of sales-specific courses: MKT 3515, 3530, and 3580.
Minor in Marketing
Students can supplement their degree with a strong understanding of marketing fundamentals by earning a minor in marketing. The marketing minor requires 18 credit hours of marketing courses at the 3000 level or above. These courses must include MKT 3501 and 3505, as well as a minimum of four additional 3000- or 4000-level courses.
Honors in Marketing
An honors program in marketing is available for high-performing students in the department. To graduate with honors in marketing, you must earn a cumulative 3.5 GPA or better, both overall and in marketing courses. The capstone of the honors program is the senior honors thesis (MKT 3599), an independent project on a topic of your choice. You must complete six hours of MKT 3599 and produce an approved honors thesis to graduate with honors.
What You’ll Learn
One of the most exciting aspects of marketing is that there’s always something new to learn and new ways to elevate your skills. As a discipline, marketing is equal parts art and science, creativity, and analysis. You’ll flex all your mental muscles as you study for a bachelor’s degree in marketing—preparing you to begin your career and leave your mark on the organizations you join.
With a B.S. in marketing from UNO, you’ll:
Understand and communicate basic marketing concepts and the role of marketing within an organization, including the four Ps (product, price, place, promotion) and target markets.
Define and implement ethical standards and policies of social responsibility, creating enduring relationships between firms and their clients for the general benefit of society as a whole.
Understand the global nature of marketing and how to operate effectively in international settings.
Use the marketing research process to define a problem or opportunity, design a research project, collect data, and analyze data to make appropriate and actionable marketing decisions.
Apply theories and principles of consumer behavior to marketing decision-making.
Synthesize internal and external information to create a marketing plan that aligns external forces with the core competencies of the firm.
Actively manage a marketing strategy in a competitive environment.
By the time you’ve completed a bachelor’s in marketing, you’ll be ready to make a tangible contribution to any organization you serve—guiding consumer behavior, exercising your creativity, driving revenue, and leading your organization to a stronger future.
Student Learning Outcomes
Student Learning Outcomes specify what students will know, be able to do, or be able to demonstrate when they have completed a program of study.
View Outcomes
Sample Courses
Applied Marketing Research
Consumer Behavior
Digital Marketing
Health Care Marketing
International Marketing Management
Marketing Analytics
Personal Selling
View Course Catalog
What Can You Do with a B.S. in Marketing?
Social Media Strategist
Sales Manager
Product Manager
Brand Manager
Marketing Research
Marketing Analytics
And More!
American Marketing Association (AMA) Student Chapter
The American Marketing Association is one of the largest and best-known professional marketing organizations in the country. Its goal is to be the most relevant voice shaping marketing around the world and to form an essential community for marketers to build relationships and exchange knowledge.
As a student member of UNO’s chapter of the AMA, you’ll have the opportunity to participate in local programming, including regular luncheons featuring speakers from all areas of the field of marketing. These programs are an unmatched opportunity to hear from thought leaders across the discipline. AMA membership also gives you numerous opportunities to network with other marketing professionals in the region, allowing you to build valuable professional connections that could give you a foot in the door when it comes time to begin your career.
Learn More
B.S. in Marketing Alumni Spotlight
Valeria Aguerri Key Account Manager Opinator Madrid, Spain
Edith Duran Assistant Project Manager and Customer Care Coordinator L’Oréal
Shantel Johnson Marketing Director North Oaks Health System
Bivian “Sonny” Lee Founder and President Son of a Saint
Judy Perry Martinez President American Bar Association Attorney at Simon, Peragine, Smith & Redfearn
Internship Opportunities
As a student in UNO’s Bachelor of Science in Marketing program, you’ll be eligible to apply for an internship with one of UNO’s partner organizations. Your internship will allow you to put what you’ve learned in the classroom into practice, understanding the real-world factors that complicate and influence every marketing decision. And you’ll become an integral part of the organization where you intern, giving you invaluable work
experience that will elevate your resume—and could smooth your way to future full-time employment.
The internship program through the College of Business Administration is called L.I.F.E.—Linking the Internship to Future Employment. During your L.I.F.E. internship, you’ll be expected to work on-site at least 10 hours per week during the fall or spring semester, and a minimum of 20 hours per week if you complete your internship during the summer semester. You’ll be expected to produce weekly reports detailing your progress for your academic advisor. L.I.F.E. internships can be used for course credit by enrolling in MKT 3585.
More information about the L.I.F.E. internship program can be found
here
.
Get to Know Our Marketing Faculty
The 19 full-time faculty in UNO’s Management and Marketing Department are widely recognized for their excellence in scholarly research and teaching. They’ve published original work in the premier journals in the field of marketing, including the Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, the Journal of Business Ethics, the Journal of Business Research, the Journal of Consumer Research, Psychology & Marketing, and others.
The department is also home to a core group of professionally qualified adjuncts who have achieved notable success in the world of marketing and sales. The real-world experience these instructors bring to the classroom is irreplaceable and will prepare you well to navigate the complex challenges that will arise in your future career.
While you work toward a B.S. in marketing, you’ll learn from marketing experts in a variety of specialties and take advantage of our faculty’s close ties with the academic, marketing, sales, and business communities in New Orleans, the Gulf Coast region, and far beyond.
Meet Our Faculty
Career Coaching
As part of the UNO College of Business Administration, all B.S. in marketing students will have total access to our Business Career Coaching Center. This valuable resource offers help to business students and alumni in every stage of their careers, from seeking internships to interview prep and personal branding.
Services include:
One-on-one, individually tailored career coaching sessions
Resume review
Mock interviews
Networking skills development
Self-branding through social media
Job-searching techniques
Business etiquette advice
Business wardrobe consultation
You can find out more about the Business Career Coaching Center, including how to make an appointment,
here
.
Ready to Get Started?
Marketing is an exciting, energetic field that’s full of potential for growth—and now’s the time to claim your place in it. Ready to start your journey toward a bachelor’s degree in marketing? Apply today, or
contact us anytime
with questions!
Apply Now
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence