URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/coba/programs/hcm-bs

IN THIS SECTION
Management and Marketing
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Program
Honors in Marketing
Faculty
Contact Us
Visit Us
Apply to UNO
Bachelor of Science in Healthcare Management
Request Info
The BS in Healthcare Management has been carefully designed to meet and exceed the national accreditation standards of the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) and the national certification standards of the Association of University Programs in Healthcare Administration (AUPHA).
Current Students
Advising
Four Year Plan of Study
Student Learning Outcomes
Student Learning Outcomes specify what students will know, be able to do, or be able to demonstrate when they have completed a program of study.
View Outcomes
Degree Requirements
Degree requirements give an overview of courses required to complete the degree program. Not all courses are offered every semester. To see a list of current courses, please see our
online catalog
.
See also:
Four Year Plan of Study
Example Courses
Example Courses
HCM 1000                      Introduction to Healthcare Management                   3cr.
This course provides a broad introduction to the field of healthcare management and a basic understanding of the core social, ethical, and patient-care concepts of management and leadership in the context of the US healthcare system.
HCM 2000                     The US Healthcare System                                          3cr.
Prerequisite: HCM 1000. This course provides a comprehensive survey of the complex, dynamic, rapidly changing health care system in the United States. The health care system's major components and their characteristics are identified with emphasis placed on current trends in health status, access, technology, health care financing, and delivery systems. Social, economic, and political forces that have shaped and continue to influence the system are traced and different prospects for the future of healthcare management are discussed.
HCM 3010                      Healthcare Organizational Leadership and Improvement                   3cr.
Prerequisite: HCM 2000 and MANG 3401. Contemporary theories, critical perspectives, models, and best practices designed to lead and manage performance excellence and ongoing quality improvement in the highly competitive health care environment are examined.
HCM 3020                      Healthcare Information Technology                          3cr.
Prerequisite: HCM 2000, BA 2780 and MANG 3402. Presents an overview of healthcare information technology (HIT) and how health care managers can use IT to improve patient care and maximize organizational performance.
HCM 3030                     Community Health Research and Management                   3cr.
Prerequisites: HCM 2000, QMBE 2786 and QMBE 2787. Introduces students to basic research and evaluation methods that assist in the assessment of the health needs of the community, develop population health strategies, better meet community health needs, and improve the underlying health of the community.
HCM 3040                      Reimbursement Systems and Revenue Management                   3cr.
Prerequisites: HCM 2000, ACCT 2130 and FIN 3300. This class is designed as an introductory course in the theory and principles of health care finance and revenue management.
HCM 4010                      Healthcare Ethics, Law and Policy                             3cr.
Prerequisite: HCM 2000 and BA 3010. This course presents an overview of the central ethical, legal, and policy issues facing healthcare managers. It addresses the basic concepts and principles of healthcare ethics, the social, political and economic dimensions of key laws and related policy issues in health care.
HCM 4070                      The Future of Healthcare Management                      1cr.
Prerequisite: HCM 2000 and Senior Status. his seminar will examine and explore emerging innovations in the financing, organization, and delivery of healthcare services. Particular emphasis will be given to those developments that promise to open-up major new avenues of professional opportunity for healthcare managers over the next decade.
HCM 4094                      Internship in Healthcare Management                        3cr.
Prerequisite: Consent of the Program Director. Must be taken concurrently with HCM 4480. This course will require undergraduates to be engaged in at least ten hours per week at the site of an assigned participating healthcare organization that directs the intern in a specific project relating to strategic management.
HCM 4480                      Healthcare Capstone                                                    3cr.
Prerequisite: Consent of the Program Director. Must be taken concurrently with HCM 4094. This course serves as the final capstone experience of the Healthcare Management Program. It draws heavily on prior coursework and the intern experience to support the development of a strategic management analysis of a healthcare organization that is consistent with the College of Business Capstone requirements.
In addition to the 34 credits of core healthcare management courses, students will also take courses in the full range of business disciplines as well as required courses in the basic life sciences and political science as part of their Major.
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence