URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/coba/programs/management-bs

Bachelor of Science in Management
You have the motivation and drive to lead a team and help an organization grow—and a B.S. in Management from the University of New Orleans will make sure you have all the skills you need to do it. This hands-on, real-world-focused degree program will expose you to the analytical and interpersonal management skills you need to be an effective part of organizational leadership.
As you work toward a Bachelor of Science in Management, you’ll prepare yourself to be a valuable and vital part of a business, startup, nonprofit organization, or any other institution that can benefit from clear-eyed, strategic insights. You’ll work with our knowledgeable faculty, taking advantage of their close ties to both the world of academia and the local, regional, and national business communities that will play a role in your career. And with numerous opportunities to transfer what you’re learning to real-life business settings, you’ll be able to hit the ground running after graduation.
Great organizations start with great leaders—and great leaders start here at UNO.
IN THIS SECTION
Management and Marketing
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Program
Honors in Marketing
Faculty
Contact Us
Visit Us
Apply to UNO
Majors and Minors
B.S. in Management
The Bachelor of Science in Management will help you understand the ins and outs of management practices in today’s most successful businesses and nonprofit organizations. You’ll spend time developing the analytical skills to enhance business processes at every level, while also strengthening the people skills you’ll need to keep an organization cohesive and employee morale high. At the end of the degree program, you’ll implement a complete business strategy in an experiential learning program, observing how different departments interact and guiding them toward the most successful outcome.
The B.S. in Management is a 120-credit-hour program that includes 39 general education credits, 48 other required credits, and 33 management-specific credits. You can find more information about degree requirements, including specific required courses,
here
.
Request Info
Current Students
Printable Degree Requirements
Four Year plan of Study
Minors
Honors
Advising
B.S. in Management: Concentration in Human Resource Management
Personnel management and human resource management are critical roles in the corporate hierarchy of nearly every company, and it takes a specific set of managerial skills to execute those roles properly. That’s why UNO gives you the option to concentrate on your B.S. in Management in Human Resource Management. You’ll build a strong foundation of interpersonal and professional skills that will help you succeed in graduate study or the workplace. To complete the concentration in Human Resources Management, students must complete MANG 3467, 4468, 4469, and 4470 as part of the 33 management-specific credits required for the B.S. degree.
B.S. in Management: Concentration in Supply Chain, Operations and Logistics
Every organization uses a supply chain to get a finished product or service into the hands of the customer. Managing supply chains successfully can ensure that the organization delivers the right products (or services) of the right quality, in the right quantity, and at the right price, to the right place, and at the right time. To achieve the 7 R’s of supply chain management and maximize productivity and performance, organizations need people with knowledge and expertise in supply chain, operations, and logistics. The Supply Chain, Operations, and Logistics (ScOL) concentration at UNO aims to equip students with the skill set that is needed to understand and implement various operational functions of Supply Chain Management. Students will learn through guest speaker lectures, field tours, internships, real-world case studies, and hands-on projects that address key supply chains issues such as managing products, information and cash flows, forecasting demand, managing production and service operations, purchasing and transportation of materials, order fulfillment returns management, and customer service. Studying supply chain management can lead our students to exciting career opportunities, including roles in supply chain, logistics, transportation, procurement, and operations management. To add a concentration in ScOL to the B.S. in management degree, students must complete nine credit hours of ScOL-specific courses: MANG 4472, MANG 4474, and an elective course. More information about the concentration can be found
here
.
B.S. in Management: Concentration in Information Management
Information technologies are transforming conventional business models and reshaping the job requirements for future workforce. The Information Management Concentration is meticulously crafted to equip students with critical data-driven business skills, including business analytics, business intelligence, cybersecurity management, innovation, and project management. Students will learn to extract insights for operational and strategic decision-making, optimizing information resources, protecting organizational information systems, and more. Within this program, students will embark on a transformative educational journey, gaining proficiency in utilizing, managing, and securing organizational information systems. To complete this specialized concentration, students must complete MANG 4710, 4720, 4750, and 4771 as part of the 33 management-specific credits required for the B.S. degree.
Honors in Management
To graduate with honors, students must maintain a cumulative GPA of 3.5 and complete at least six credit hours of honors coursework in management. The culmination of the honors program is the honors thesis (MANG 3099), which requires at least six credit hours of work as well as an oral defense of your completed thesis.
Minor in Management
Students who are looking for a way to supplement their degree with strong strategic and analytic management skills can earn a minor in management by completing 18 credit hours of management courses. These courses must be above the 3000 level to qualify for the minor, and students must earn a C or better in each.
Minor in Entrepreneurship
An entrepreneur is a forward-thinking problem-solver who believes in overcoming the impossible in every aspect of business—and you can strengthen your entrepreneurial muscles by earning a minor in entrepreneurship. To earn the minor, you’ll need to complete 18 credit hours in various aspects of business administration, management, and finance, giving you a well-rounded understanding of what’s required to launch your business venture. A "C" or better is required for each course that counts toward the minor.
Minor in Information Systems Management
If you’re interested in the relationships between people, organizations, and technology, a Minor in Information Systems Management could set you on the path to a career as a business analyst, a systems developer, a network administrator, or any number of roles combining business and technology. To earn the minor, you’ll need to complete 18 credit hours in approved management information systems courses, including MANG 3778. A "C" or better is required for each course that counts toward the minor.
What You’ll Learn
A quality manager must bring more to the table than a confident personality or a willingness to work hard. Management is a skill—one that can be strengthened through study and practice. The Bachelor of Science in Management from UNO will connect you with guidance from our expert faculty and numerous opportunities to put classroom theory into practice—training you to lead, serve, and excel in business.
With a B.S. in Management from UNO, you’ll:
Understand and communicate basic management concepts and the role of managers within organizations and the marketplace.
Define and implement ethical standards and policies of corporate social responsibility.
Explore the global nature of management and strategically address the challenges of managing multinational enterprises.
Apply theories and principles of organizational behavior to managerial decision-making.
Formulate and implement strategies that build on the core competencies of a firm to demonstrate active management of an enterprise in a competitive environment.
Give coherent and effective business presentations.
Use and integrate technology and information into managerial decision-making and operational processes, including qualitative and quantitative decision-making processes.
By the time you complete your Bachelor of Science in Management, your management skills will be in top form—and you’ll be ready to lead teams and organizations in the right direction.
Student Learning Outcomes
Student Learning Outcomes specify what students will know, be able to do, or be able to demonstrate when they have completed a program of study.
View Outcomes
Sample Courses
Business Application Development
Business Policies and Problems
Employment Law for Managers
Human Resource Management
International Management
Leadership in Organizations
Operations and Systems Management
View Course Catalog
What Can You Do with a B.S. in Management?
Human Resources Management
Information Systems Management
International Management
Operations Management
Project Management
And More!
Internship Opportunities
As a student in the Department of Management and Marketing at UNO, you are eligible to apply for an on-site management internship with one of the university’s partner organizations. This internship program, run through the College of Business Administration, is called L.I.F.E.—Linking the Internship to Future Employment.
During your L.I.F.E. internship, you’ll be on-site as a vital part of a workplace, responsible for applying the knowledge you’ve learned in class to real business clients. You’ll be expected to work on-site at least 10 hours per week during the fall or spring semester, and a minimum of 20 hours per week if you complete your internship during the summer semester.
Your internship will involve directed short- and long-term projects that are closely related to your management degree. After your internship, you’ll have a stronger resume as well as practical management experience that will put you a step ahead of your peers after graduation—and that could smooth your way to a future career.
B.S. in Management Alumni
Paul Dastugue
President
Property One, Inc.
John D. Etchemendy
Director of Family Violence and Domestic Relations Program
National Council of Juvenile and Family Court Judges
Cindy Mousa
Director, Employee Relations
Ochsner Health System
Tracey Schiro
Senior VP, Risk Management
Chief HR Officer
Ochsner Health System
Get to Know Our Management Faculty
The full-time faculty in UNO’s Department of Management and Marketing are widely recognized for their excellence in scholarly research and teaching. They’ve published original work in the premier journals in their field, including the Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, the Journal of Business Ethics, the Journal of Business Research, the Journal of Consumer Research, Psychology & Marketing, and others.
The department is also home to a core group of professionally qualified adjuncts who have achieved notable success in the field of management. The real-world experience these instructors bring to the classroom is irreplaceable and will prepare you well for your future career.
While you work toward your B.S. in Management, you’ll learn from management experts in a variety of specialties and take advantage of our faculty’s close ties with the academic and business communities in New Orleans, the Gulf Coast region, and far beyond.
Meet Our Faculty
Career Coaching
As part of the UNO College of Business Administration, all B.S. in Management students will have total access to our Business Career Coaching Center. This valuable resource offers help to business students and alumni in every stage of their career, from seeking internships to interview prep and personal branding.
Services include:
One-on-one, individually tailored career coaching sessions
Resume review
Mock interviews
Networking skills development
Self-branding through social media
Job-searching techniques
Business etiquette advice
Business wardrobe consultation
You can find out more about the Business Career Coaching Center, including how to make an appointment,
here
.
Ready to Get Started?
The world will always need strategic-minded individuals to manage operations and keep organizations on track. It needs you—and there’s no time like the present to begin your journey toward your Bachelor of Science in Management. Apply today, or
contact us
anytime with questions!
Apply Now
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence