URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/colaehd/programs/fine-arts-ba

IN THIS SECTION
Fine Arts
Undergraduate Program
Master of Fine Arts
Minors
Degree Requirements & Four Year Plan of Study
Creative Work
Core Studio Classes
Faculty
Undergraduate Program
Bachelor of Arts
The Department of Fine Arts houses the degrees: Bachelor of Arts in Studio Art and Bachelor of Arts in Art History.
The University of New Orleans is accredited by National Association of Schools of Art and Design. The Bachelor of Arts Degree is a four-year/120 credit hour degree designed for students who desire a solid foundation in the visual arts, historical and interdisciplinary understanding of artistic practice, and as a foundation for future graduate study.
APPLY NOW
Course of Study
BA in Art: Studio Art
The Studio Art curriculum is designed to prepare students to function in a variety of artistic roles. This degree totals 120 credits for the university general degree requirements within the context of a liberal arts college. 54 credits are dedicated to the studio art field and can be taken in a number of disciplines including, printmaking, photography, digital arts, animation, painting, drawing and sculpture. In the final year of study students will create an individual body of work that culminates with a finished exhibition to be shown in our on-campus gallery.
Degree Requirements
BA in Art: Art History
Art history is an interdisciplinary field that investigates art as part of history and the larger cultural, socio-economic, and political context in which it was produced. Studying art history prepares you for a range of professions in art education, publishing, and the museum and gallery worlds. The curriculum is designed to train you in visual literacy help you become an independent, creative thinker. It emphasizes experiential learning by offering courses featuring hands-on activities and real-world projects, and by facilitating internship opportunities that will make you a stronger candidate in the job market.
*Photo Credit:
Dread Scott et al, Slave Rebellion Reenactment army arriving at the New Orleans Jazz Museum (former Fort St. Charles site), November 9, 2019. Photo by Soul Brother, courtesy of Antenna Works.
Degree Requirements
Student Learning Outcomes
Student Learning Outcomes specify what students will know, be able to do, or be able to demonstrate when they have completed a program of study.
View Studio Art
View Art History
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence