URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/coba/programs/finance-bs

Bachelor of Science in Finance
Today’s businesses, nonprofits, and government organizations rely on knowledgeable financial professionals to keep them on track—and with a Bachelor of Science degree in finance from UNO, you’ll be just the expert they’re looking for. You’ll learn about the complex systems and issues involved in managing current and future funds for businesses and other organizations so you can help them stand on stronger financial footing. Whether your career path leads you toward financial planning, banking, insurance, or any number of other fields in business, your B.S. in finance will equip you to face any challenge with confidence—and make you an indispensable asset to any company you work with.
Our finance department is well known for its dedicated faculty, high-quality publications, and strong academic rankings. And we’re a critical part of the larger academic conversation around finance: UNO’s research places us among the top 25 percent of finance programs in the country, according to the Journal of Finance. The rigorous education you’ll receive here will set you up for a successful, high-paying career in the field of business you choose. If you’re ready to thrive in the field of finance, there’s nowhere better to get your start than at UNO.
IN THIS SECTION
Economics and Finance
Contact Us
Faculty
Graduate Programs
Undergraduate Program
Visit Us
Apply to UNO
Major and Minor Opportunities
Accelerated BS to MS in Finance Program
Accelerated BS to MS in Finance Program
The Accelerated Master’s (AM) Degree offers the opportunity for outstanding students to begin earning credit toward a master's degree while still pursuing undergraduate studies. Our accelerated programs allow a student to complete a master's in less time and at a lower-than-average cost. The main feature of the program is that, while completing their undergraduate study, students may earn up to 12 semester hours of graduate credit that counts as dual credit for both the baccalaureate and master’s degrees.
Minimum Requirements
AM students must have a cumulative undergraduate GPA of at least 3.2 to be conditionally admitted into a master’s degree program. Students may not enroll in graduate courses until they have:
Completed all requirements for the Core Curriculum
Completed a minimum of 90 hours of undergraduate work, including at least 15 hours of upper-level courses in the major and
Been conditionally admitted to a master’s program.
Contact W. J. Lane
wlane@uno.edu
for more information.
B.S. in Finance
B.S. in Finance
When you enroll in UNO’s B.S. in finance program, you’ll develop a deep understanding of the foundational concepts of finance. From financial systems to emerging technologies and much more, you’ll use financial concepts to solve today’s most advanced problems and help your future clients build a stronger financial outlook. This degree will also fully prepare you to begin an M.S. in finance after graduation if you choose.
The Bachelor of Science in finance is a 120-credit-hour program, including 39 general education credits and 81 program-specific credits. Detailed degree requirements for the current academic year can be found
here
.
Evening-Only B.S. in Finance
Evening-Only B.S. in Finance
If you’re working full-time or balancing other responsibilities during the day, UNO’s flexible B.S. degree in finance is the perfect fit for you. You can earn exactly the same degree as your full-time counterparts while taking classes only in the evenings. It’s the easiest way to jump start your career in finance without slowing down in any other aspects of your life.
Finance Concentrations
Finance Concentrations
If you’d like to tailor your B.S. degree in finance toward a specific certification or career path, we offer two concentrations to help you get the most out of your undergraduate experience. Each concentration requires three specialized courses in addition to the standard degree requirements.
Financial Planning
This concentration is designed for students who want to pursue a career as a Certified Financial Planner (CFP). As a CFP, you’ll manage all aspects of the financial planning process, from taxes and insurance to estate planning and retirement. FIN 4310, 4311, and 4312 are required to earn this concentration.
Financial Analyst
If you’re interested in using the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) designation or becoming a CFA charterholder, this concentration will help get you on your way. FIN 4306, 4307, and 4308 are required to complete this concentration.
Finance Minor
Minor in Finance
Non-majors can minor in finance by completing Finance 3300, 3302, ECON 2221, and nine hours of Finance electives, one of which must be at the 4000 level. Students must earn a C or better in each of these courses to successfully complete the minor.
Economics Minor
Minor in Economics
Students wishing to minor in Economics may do so by completing the following required courses and electives in Economics with a grade of C or better in each course: Economics 1203, 1204, and 2221 plus nine hours of electives from economics courses at the 3000 or higher level.
Why UNO Finance?
Why Get Your B.S. in Finance at UNO?
Why Get Your B.S. in Finance at UNO?
A successful career in finance requires a strong foundation, and that’s just what you’ll get in the University of New Orleans Department of Economics and Finance. The prestigious
Journal of Finance
ranked us 77 of 330 U.S. universities for our finance research, and our department was also ranked 97 of 1,127 universities worldwide. As an AACSB- and SACS-accredited program, we are the perfect home for students who are enthusiastic about finance and ready to join in the discipline’s vibrant conversation.
A program like ours naturally attracts faculty of the highest caliber. More Economics and Finance faculty have won Best Professor awards than the faculty of any other department at UNO. Our faculty members also oversee the publication of the
Review of Financial Economics
—one of the top finance and economics journals publishing today.
What You'll Learn
What You’ll Learn
Finance professionals are in demand for a reason: practically every industry needs someone with a firm understanding of the current financial landscape, as well as an ability to predict future trends. A Bachelor of Science in finance from UNO will help you develop the critical skills you need to successfully establish yourself in the financial industry, whether your path leads you to more advanced study or directly into a profitable career.
In UNO’s Bachelor of Science in finance program, you will:
Gain a deep understanding of basic concepts in finance.
Solve financial problems using both basic and intermediate concepts.
Integrate and extend both basic and intermediate financial concepts to solve advanced problems.
Develop and deliver cohesive oral presentations based on the resolution of a business problem.
Improve your written communication skills by developing a well-organized written exposition of a business problem—both analysis and solution.
Demonstrate a deep knowledge of core business concepts in accounting, finance, management, marketing, economics, quantitative analysis, and legal environment.
Understand the effective use of workplace technology.
By the time you complete your Bachelor of Science in finance, you’ll be ready to guide your future clients toward outcomes that are both practical and profitable.
What Can You Do with a B.S. in Finance?
What Can You Do with a B.S. in Finance?
Banking and Financial Institutions
Corporate Finance
Financial Analysis
Financial Planning
Insurance
Real Estate
Student Learning Outcomes
Student Learning Outcomes
Student Learning Outcomes specify what students will know, be able to do, or be able to demonstrate when they have completed a program of study.
View Outcomes
Program Opportunities
Sample Courses
Sample Courses
Financial Planning
Insurance and Risk Management
Investment Banking and Financial Institutions
Portfolio Theory and Derivatives
Real Estate Finance
Small Business Finance
Internships
Finance Internships
To get a real sense of what a career in finance looks like, there’s no better way than to experience it for yourself. All B.S. in finance students with junior standing or above are encouraged to apply to UNO’s L.I.F.E. Internship Program, available in fall, winter, and summer semesters.
In your L.I.F.E. internship, you’ll work with one of UNO’s Internship Partnering Organizations on a project directly related to your major. This will give you real-world experience that puts your classes into context, deepening your understanding of everything you’re learning. Plus, it will give your resume an edge over other applicants’ after graduation—and your internship might even evolve into a full-time job.
You can learn more about the L.I.F.E. Internship Program, including application requirements,
here
.
Finance and Economic Association
Finance and Economics Association
As a finance student, you’re encouraged to join the Finance and Economics Association, an on-campus student group that offers support and community for those planning a career in finance. A variety of guest speakers regularly visit campus to speak with Association members, sharing their experience in the diverse career paths and areas of specialization available for those with a B.S. degree in finance.
Career Coaching
Career Coaching
As part of the UNO College of Business Administration, all B.S. in finance students will have total access to our Business Career Coaching Center. This valuable resource offers help to business students and alumni in every stage of their career, from seeking internships to interview prep and personal branding.
Services include:
One-on-one, individually tailored career coaching sessions
Resume review
Mock interviews
Networking skills development
Self-branding through social media
Job-searching techniques
Business etiquette advice
Business wardrobe consultation
You can find out more about the Business Career Coaching Center, including how to make an appointment,
here
.
Ready to Get Started?
A Bachelor of Science in finance will prepare you for a long, successful career in one of today’s most in-demand fields—and there’s no time like the present to start your journey. Apply today, or
contact us
anytime with questions!
Apply Now
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence