URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/coba/programs/hrt-bs

Bachelor of Science in Hotel, Restaurant, and Tourism Administration
The Lester E. Kabacoff School of Hotel, Restaurant and Tourism Administration offers one of the best-known hospitality and tourism management degrees in the country. This bachelor’s degree from UNO opens doors all across the
hospitality and tourism industry
. You’ll study hospitality, restaurant and tourism management from some of the world’s leading professors.
From world-class hotels to the massive tourism infrastructure supporting Mardi Gras, opportunities for hospitality students exist in New Orleans like nowhere else in the world. You’ll study in one of the nation’s best-known and fastest-growing tourist destinations. No wonder, over 90 percent of HRT students hold full- or part-time jobs that are directly related to their degree.
Studying in this “living laboratory”, you’ll be able to combine real-world experience with in-depth classroom learning to really understand the mechanics of the hospitality and tourism business.
By the time you complete your degree, you’ll have an impressive résumé of skills and experience, including 600 work hours at a relevant company.
The Bachelor’s degree in Hotel, Restaurant, and Tourism Administration is a practical, hands-on program that will put you on the path to achieving your goals right from the start. There’s no tourist destination like New Orleans—and no hospitality program like UNO.
Apply Today
Request Information
Contact Information
Name
Email
Leave this field blank
IN THIS SECTION
School of Hotel, Restaurant and Tourism Administration
Undergraduate Program
Graduate Programs
Minor in HRT
Honors
Hospitality Research Center
HRT Food Production Lab
Wine Education
HRT Building
Industry & Alumni
Work Experience and Internships
Faculty/Staff
Message from the Director
Contact Us
Major and Minor Opportunities
Bachelor of Science in Hotel, Restaurant, and Tourism Administration
When you pursue your Bachelor’s degree in Hotel, Restaurant, and Tourism Administration from UNO, you’ll gain the foundational understanding of business concepts and the hands-on hospitality experience to excel in a wide variety of fields. Our curriculum is based on industry involvement and academic research, with leading faculty who provide individualized attention and countless opportunities for personal and professional growth. Whether your interests lie in hotels, restaurants, food-service companies, conventions and event planning, tour companies, or any other sector of the hospitality industry, this program will set you on your way.
The B.S. in Hotel, Restaurant, and Tourism administration is a 120-credit-hour program that includes 39 general education credits, 50 other required credits, and 31 HRT-specific credits. The degree also requires the Work Experience Practicum (HRT 3002), in which you’ll need to gather 600 hours of hospitality work experience before graduation. You can find more information about specific courses and requirements
here
.
Current Students
Degree Requirements
Four Year Plan of Study
Minor in HRT
Honors in HRT
Contact Advising Office
Honors in Hotel, Restaurant, and Tourism Administration
An honors program is available for students in excellent academic standing who want to dive even deeper into a specific focus area of the hospitality and tourism industry. In order to qualify for the honors program in HRT, you’ll need to maintain at least a 3.5 GPA, both overall and in HRT courses.
The capstone of the honors program is the senior honors thesis—an original work on a subject of your choice. After presenting a successful oral defense of your thesis, you’ll be qualified to graduate with honors. If you have further questions about the honors degree in Hotel, Restaurant, and Tourism Administration, the
UNO Honors Program
may be able to help.
Minor in Hotel, Restaurant, and Tourism Administration
The HRT minor is open to all UNO students interested in the hospitality and tourism industry. To complete the minor, you’ll need to take 18 credit hours of HRT courses, including HRT 2000. You’ll also need to choose six credit hours from HRT 2020, 2030, 2050, and 2070, and earn at least nine credit hours at the 3000 or 4000 level. Students minoring in HRT are eligible for select scholarships and memberships in HRT student associations.
What You’ll Learn
Hospitality, tourism and services are exciting, fast-growing industries, and they’re constantly looking for creative, motivated people to help create the best possible experience for every guest, every time. The Bachelor’s degree in Hotel, Restaurant, and Tourism Administration from UNO will ensure you develop the skills employers are looking for and help you build the professional connections you’ll need.
With a Bachelor degree in Hotel, Restaurant, and Tourism Administration, you’ll:
Acquire a skill set for business management
Learn how to make informed ethical decisions
Hone your written and oral communication skills
Develop strong problem-solving skills
Build core competency skills in hospitality and tourism management to prepare you for your career
Apply core concepts of the hospitality and tourism industry to practical business situations
Identify cultural differences in the business environment
Receive hands-on work experience and industry insights
By the time you complete your Bachelor of Science Hotel, Restaurant, and Tourism Administration, you’ll be ready to apply your knowledge to an exciting career in the area of your choice.
Student Learning Outcomes
Student Learning Outcomes specify what students will know, be able to do, or be able to demonstrate when they have completed a program of study.
View Outcomes
Work Experience
Work Experience Requirement
One of the central parts of the Bachelor’s degree in Hotel, Restaurant, and Tourism Administration is the Work Experience Practicum (HRT 3002). The practicum has a work requirement of 600 hours prior to graduation, and many students find that their practicum leads to entry-level positions upon graduation. No matter what, it’s an excellent opportunity for you to practice the skills you’re learning in the classroom, and it adds a compelling item to your résumé when it comes time to apply for jobs after graduation.
If you have more questions about the work experience requirement, reach out to
HRT advising
.
Internships
The School of HRT works with the UNO College of Business Life Opportunities Program to connect interested students with internship placements where they can earn course credit through supervised training and work in real-world settings. As an intern, you’ll be involved in projects directly related to your major for at least 10–15 hours per week during the fall and spring semesters and 18–20 hours per week in the summer semester.
The undergraduate internship course is HRT 3290, a three-credit-hour elective. Internships can be established by the College of Business through the office of the College Internship Coordinator. In all cases, your internship must be approved by the HRT faculty through the College Internship Coordinator. If you have further questions about internships, the
Link the Internship to Future Employment (L.I.F.E.) internship
program through the Henry Bernstein College of Business Administration may be able to help you.
Facilities
Food Production Laboratory
If you’re interested in moving into the food and beverage industry, the HRT Food Production Laboratory is the ideal training facility for you to build your skills. This state-of-the-art facility contains a production kitchen, a demonstration lab, and a dining room overseeing our famous HRT courtyard. The Food Production Laboratory supports a number of School of HRT functions throughout the year, including the annual Distinguished Alumni Award Dinner.
Hospitality Research Center
Consistently recognized for excellence in hospitality research, the Hospitality Research Center explores a variety of questions about and opportunities for hospitality, travel, and tourism organizations. From visitor estimates and the impact of gambling to convention studies and Louisiana restaurant industry studies, the Hospitality Research Center helps the industry discover new opportunities and maximize its impact.
The Hospitality Research Center is a collaborative effort between the Lester E. Kabacoff School of Hotel, Restaurant, and Tourism Administration (HRT) and the Division of Business and Economic Research (DBER). It’s the premier source of data and information about visitors to the city of New Orleans and the state of Louisiana. As an undergraduate student, you’ll benefit enormously from access to this hub of well-respected research and the experienced faculty who conduct it.
Sample Courses
International Tourism
Introduction to the Convention Industry
Lodging Operations
Policy Issues in Tourism and Hospitality
Principles of Food Production
Tourism and Hospitality Marketing
Wines of the World
View Course Catalog
Where Can You Work with a Bachelor’s degree in Hotel, Restaurant, and Tourism Administration?
Airlines and Airports
Car Rental Companies
Casinos
Catering Companies
Convention Centers
Country Clubs
Cruise Lines
Destination Management and Marketing Organizations
Event Organizers and Management Companies
Food-Service Companies
Hospitality Technology Companies
HotelsManaged Services
Private Clubs
Resorts
Restaurants and Bars
Tour Companies and Tour Operators
Tourism and Hospitality Consultancies
Visitor Bureaus or Visitor Administration Offices
And More!
Student Organizations
American Hotel and Lodging Association
The American Hotel and Lodging Association connects students with hospitality education, training, and professional certification so that they’ll be better prepared to succeed in future careers. The Tourism Tee-Off is the Association’s largest annual event. In addition, the American Hotel and Lodging Association regularly holds joint socials and events with the Louisiana Restaurant Association.
Eta Sigma Delta: International Hospitality Management Honor Society
The UNO chapter of this national honor society aims to lead hospitality and tourism professionals to the highest levels of achievement. With more than 90 active chapters around the world, Eta Sigma Delta provides outstanding networking opportunities for students, as well as a way for students to distinguish themselves in an increasingly competitive industry.
Hotel, Restaurant, and Tourism Association
The HRT Association is a professional and social organization open to students who want to become more involved in the hospitality industry and make valuable connections with other industry participants.
Louisiana Restaurant Association
Open to all enrolled students, the Louisiana Restaurant Association’s goal is to support students’ professional development through education, community service, and active participation in the restaurant and hospitality industries. Some of the Louisiana Restaurant Association’s major events include the LRA Social, the Zurich Classic, ProStart, including joint events with the American Hotel and Lodging Association.
Student Learning Outcomes
Students will demonstrate the ability to make an informed ethical decision.
Students will demonstrate effective written communications skills.
Students will demonstrate effective problem solving skills.
Students will demonstrate effective oral communications skills.
Students will demonstrate core competency skills of the hospitality and tourism industry to prepare them for a career in the hospitality and tourism industry.
Students will learn to apply core concepts of the hospitality and tourism industry to a business situation.
Students will be able to identify cultural difference in the business environment.
Degree Requirements
The degree requirements for the B. S. in Hotel, Restaurant, and Tourism Administration provide an overview of courses required to complete the degree program. The program is designed to provide a sound preparation for
graduate study
as well as prepare students for careers in tourism, meetings, conventions and event planning, food and beverage management, and hotel operations management.
Ready to Get Started?
The hospitality and tourism industry is thriving—here in New Orleans, in Louisiana, across the country, and around the world. A Bachelor of Science in Hotel, Restaurant, and Tourism Administration opens up endless possibilities in a huge variety of careers—and there’s never been a better time than right now to start pursuing your dreams. If this sounds like the right career path for you, we’re here to help. Apply today, or
contact us anytime
for more information!
Apply Today
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence