URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/cos/psychology/undergraduate

Bachelor of Science in Psychology
The Department of Psychology is part of the College of Sciences and offers four-year undergraduate programs leading to a Bachelor of Science degree. In addition to regular courses, undergraduate students at UNO have many opportunities to earn academic credit while working individually with faculty members in research and in psychological service settings. As a result, many of our undergraduates have appeared as co-authors with faculty and graduate students on articles published in leading scientific journals and have presented their findings at scientific meetings across the country. Students who maintain a superior grade-point average may graduate with "Honors in Psychology" by completing a research thesis.
Apply
Request Info
IN THIS SECTION
Psychology
Undergraduate Program
Graduate Program
Research Laboratories
Psi Chi
Faculty
Notable Alumni
Contact Us
With a B.S. in psychology from the University of New Orleans, you will delve into the scientific workings of the human mind, unlocking some of the most complex mysteries in human behavior. Psychology is a hub science that draws on methods from a range of fields: biology, chemistry, physics, mathematics, computer science, medicine, and education. The result: a multidimensional, vibrant education that prepares you for success in experimental, applied, and clinical psychology and neuroscience—and so much more.
As you work toward a B.S. in psychology, you will come to a greater understanding of yourself and others through analytical thinking and hands-on research. You will work with the internationally recognized scientists and experts on our faculty, who are excited to offer mentorship and work with you directly. In addition, you will be able to follow your specific interests and passions wherever they take you, whether that is clinical and abnormal psychology, social psychology, biological and physiological psychology, or a number of different specialty areas.
Psychology is a field of exploration and experimentation, with new knowledge emerging constantly. Once you earn a B.S. in psychology from UNO, there is no limit to what you can discover.
Major and Minor Opportunities
B.S. in Psychology
The Bachelor of Science in psychology is a rigorous four-year program that will give you a strong grasp of foundational psychological concepts, as well as more in-depth knowledge in the focus areas of your choice. In addition to regular courses, you will have many opportunities to earn academic credit while working individually with faculty members in research and in psychological service settings.
The Bachelor of Science in psychology degree is a 120-credit-hour program, including 39 general education credit hours, 51 other required credit hours, and 30 psychology-specific credit hours. The psychology-specific credits must include PSYC 3300: Experimental Design and Methodology (see below). More information about degree requirements and specific courses can be found
here
.
Honors in Psychology
An honors program is available for students who maintain a high academic standard throughout their time at UNO. To qualify for the program, you will need a GPA of at least 3.25 overall and at least 3.5 in psychology courses. The capstone of the honors program is the senior honors thesis (PSYC 3099), an original work of scholarship under the supervision of a faculty member. If you have questions about
the honors program
in psychology, the UNO Honors Program may be able to help.
Minor in Psychology
To earn a minor in psychology, you will need to complete at least 18 credit hours of psychology courses and earn a C or better in all of them, including PSYC 1000 and at least three courses at the 3000 or 4000 level. You can use either PSYC 1500 or 1520 toward your minor, but not both.
What You’ll Learn
Psychology is an exciting and widely varied discipline—one where there’s always something new to discover, and where the skills you develop will serve you in any number of career paths. As you work toward a bachelor’s degree in psychology, you will become well versed in research methods, statistics, and critical and creative thinking: exactly what is required for a successful future in the sciences.
Student Learning Outcomes
Student Learning Outcomes specify what students will know, be able to do, or be able to demonstrate when they have completed a program of study.
View Outcomes
With a B.S. in psychology from UNO, you will:
Describe key concepts, principles, and overarching themes in psychology
Develop a working knowledge of psychology’s content domains
Understand applications of psychology
Use scientific reasoning to interpret psychological phenomena
Demonstrate psychology information literacy
Engage in innovative, integrative thinking and problem-solving
Interpret, design, and conduct basic psychological research
Incorporate sociocultural factors in scientific inquiry
Develop ethical and socially responsible behaviors for professional and personal settings in a landscape that involves increasing diversity
Demonstrate competence in writing and in oral and interpersonal communication skills
Apply psychology-specific content and skills, effective self-reflection, project management skills, teamwork skills, and career preparation techniques to develop meaningful professional direction for life after graduation
By the time you complete a bachelor’s degree in psychology, you’ll be much more than a passive observer of the human brain—you’ll be an active participant in science and discovery, ready to shape the future of psychology.
Sample Courses
Animal Cognition and Behavior
Clinical and Abnormal Psychology
Cognition
Drugs and Behavior
Human Sexual Behavior
Social Psychology
Statistics and Research Methods
What Can You Do with a B.S. in Psychology?
Business
Data and Statistical Analysis
Education
Law
Law Enforcement
Marketing and Advertising
Master’s in Counseling or Rehabilitation Counseling
Master’s in Social Work
Medical School
Occupational Therapy
Psychiatric Technician
Psychometrist
Public Service and Government
Research or Laboratory Technician
Social Work
And More!
Faculty Spotlight
Elliott A. Beaton, Ph.D.
Director of the Stress, Cognition, and Affective Neuroscience Laboratory
Graduate Coordinator
Associate Professor
Specialization: Neuroscience and Developmental Psychopathology
Learn More >
“Psychology and neuroscience are at the crossroads of all other disciplines: a truly interdisciplinary science and a very young one. There is so much yet to discover—so much work yet to do. It is an exciting time to study the brain, with new discoveries made almost daily.”
Research Opportunities
PSYC 3300: Experimental Methods and Design
This course—offered every semester—gives you an opportunity to gain hands-on experience with survey research and psychology experiments. Many B.S. in psychology students have discovered their passion for research in this course, and they have gone on to work directly with research professors in psychology laboratories or pursue careers in research science. PSYC 3300 is a required course for all students completing the bachelor’s degree in psychology, and it is a prerequisite for most upper-level courses.
Research Assistantship
The faculty in UNO’s Department of Psychology are active, productive scientists who frequently collaborate with other universities across the country and around the world. Undergraduate students regularly work alongside our faculty on their research, gaining hands-on experience in emerging brain and behavior science. A research assistantship can be completed either for credit or as a paid, part-time position.
Community Practica
If you are interested in working with a specific organization or within a specific field in the New Orleans area, a practicum might be the right fit for you. In your practicum, you can train in supervised clinical, social service, behavioral, or medical settings for course credit. The first step to registering for a practicum is to identify an opportunity you are interested in—after that, UNO can help you facilitate the partnership.
Research Laboratories
The faculty in the University of New Orleans Department of Psychology collaborate with local, national, and international researchers in a number of state-of-the-art laboratories. Undergraduate and graduate students can gain practical skills and experience in developmental and biopsychological research by working alongside faculty members in these labs. The following are some of our laboratories.
Autism Brain and Language (ABL) Lab
The goal of the ABL Lab is to further understand the differences in language ability in those with autism spectrum disorder, as well as the neural components that underlie it. ABL Lab researchers are also interested in developing evidence-based interventions that improve language ability
Learn More >
Biological and Environmental Risk for Affective Disorders (BE-RAD) Lab
The BE-RAD Lab examines risk for affective disorders and behavior problems in children and adolescents, as well as how different environmental and biological conditions might increase this risk.
Learn More >
Circadian Rhythm Lab
Established by Dr. Refinetti in 1986, the Circadian Rhythm Laboratory has the mission of conducting experimental research on circadian rhythms (and other biological rhythms). Supplementary activities include research in thermal physiology, development of data analysis procedures, and design of computer software for scientific research and higher education.
Learn More >
Crescent City Substance Use Lab
Through cutting-edge statistics and other research strategies, the Crescent City Substance Abuse Lab works to identify the individual, familial, and environmental factors that interact in late childhood to predict which youth will develop maladaptive patterns of substance abuse.
Learn More >
Mechanisms Underlying Sociality (MUS) Lab
The MUS Lab studies how basic bodily mechanisms influence social cognition and behavior. For example, a current area of interest is how deficits in temperature regulation may relate to differences in social cognitive abilities in autism spectrum disorder.
Learn More >
Stress, Cognition, and Affective Neuroscience (SCAN) Lab
We study how stress affects brain development in children and adults who are at high risk for mental illnesses including anxiety disorders and schizophrenia, with a focus on informing early intervention, mitigation, and prevention. To this end, Dr. Beaton and his team use a variety of tools, including functional and structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in combination with psychophysiological, hormonal, immunological, and cognitive measures.
Learn More >
Student Organizations
Psi Chi
One of the largest honor societies in the United States, Psi Chi promotes excellence and advancements in psychology. As a member of Psi Chi, you will be able to participate in a number of activities both on campus and off. The organization sponsors national and regional undergraduate and graduate research award programs and undergraduate research conferences. It publishes a national magazine: Eye on Psi Chi. The UNO chapter also participates in departmental peer advising, campus events, and service projects, including Habitat for Humanity and Second Harvest Food Bank.
Learn More >
Alumni Spotlight
Kathryn Lawing, Ph.D.
Ph.D. in Psychology ’11
Licensed Developmental Psychologist
Lawing Psychology, LLC
Michael Mauk, Ph.D.
B.S. in Psychology ’79
Professor and Chair, Department of Neuroscience
University of Texas at Austin
Lara R. Robinson, Ph.D.
Ph.D. in Psychology ’06
Behavioral Scientist, Child Development Studies Team
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Tiffany Simpson, Ph.D.
Ph.D. in Psychology ’10
Director of Legislative Affairs, Juvenile Justice Compliance Officer
Louisiana Public Defender Board
Ready to Get Started?
A Bachelor of Science in psychology introduces you to the inner workings of the brain, familiarizes you with a broad range of sciences, and prepares you to make the discoveries that will drive the next generation of psychologists. If this sounds like the right path for you, let’s begin your journey toward a bachelor’s degree in psychology. Apply today, or
contact us anytime
for more information!
Apply Now
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence