URL: https://www.uno.edu/academics/colaehd/la/sociology/undergraduate

IN THIS SECTION
Sociology
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Program
Internship Program
Mission
Faculty
Alumni
Contact Us
Undergraduate Sociology
Major
The Department of Sociology offers a Bachelor of Arts. Sociology — the study of social life — investigates topics ranging from the intimate family to the hostile mob, from crime to religion, from racial divisions to shared beliefs. As a sociology major at the University of New Orleans, you'll acquire a firm grounding in the sociological theories and research methods that will help you navigate these complex issues.
Student Learning Outcomes
Student Learning Outcomes specify what students will know, be able to do, or be able to demonstrate when they have completed a program of study.
View Outcomes
Topics
Because sociology spans so many areas, you'll want to select a focus from topics such as:
social theory
race relations
social inequality
statistics
population problems
or others in the department
During your four years you'll gain practical experience through faculty-guided research and internships with local agencies and action organizations. With a particular emphasis on environment and gender studies, our professors will encourage you to join their research within communities and neighborhoods.
With a sociology degree from UNO, you will be ready to pursue advanced degrees in areas such as social work, law and counseling, or enter the work force in a role such as teacher, researcher or administrator. Whatever your path, your sociological background will help guide you to success.
Degree Requirements
|
Example Courses Offered
Not all courses are offered every semester. To see a list of current courses, please see our
online catalog
.
Minor
Students must complete the following requirements for a minor in Sociology:
Degree Requirements
Current Students
Printable Degree Requirements
Four Year Plan of Study
Minor
Honors Information
Internship Program
2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148
888-514-4275
Additional Contacts
Learn
Admission Information
Programs of Study
Scholarships and Awards
Tuition and Fees
Experience
International Center
Our Campus
Student Life
Accessibility
Connect
All Social
University Calendar
Español - Tiếng Việt
Request Info
Apply
Visit
Give
© 2024 University of New Orleans
Emergency Preparedness
UL System
Non-Discrimination
Campus Crime Stats
Title IX & Power Based Violence