https://durhamcollege.ca/programs/artificial-intelligence-honours-bachelor

Artificial Intelligence – Honours Bachelor
Ministry-approved title: Artificial Intelligence
ENTRANCE AWARD AVAILABLE
Credential
Bachelor’s degree (honours)
Location
Oshawa
OCAS Code
HBAI
Next Intake
September 2025
View all intakes
Faculty
Faculty of Science, Engineering & Information Technology (SEIT)
Length
Nine semesters
Laptop
Learn more
about laptop requirements
Delivery
In person
Learn more
.

Overview
Apply Now
Domestic application
International application
Overview
Program Details
Admission Requirements
Courses
Costs
Career Options
Experiential Learning
Transfer
Tech Requirements
Faculty Experts
Entrance Award
Book a tour
Ask a Current Student
Connect with us
Apply Now
Domestic application
International application
Overview
Program Details
Admission Requirements
Courses
Costs
Career Options
Experiential Learning
Pathways
Tech Requirements
Meet Your Faculty Experts
Entrance Award
Your Next Steps
Book a tour
Ask a Current Student
Connect with us
Apply Now
Artificial Intelligence Program Overview
Our cutting-edge, interdisciplinary artificial intelligence (AI) program offers a strong focus on hands-on learning and real-world applications. Students
working toward an artificial intelligence degree
learn from
faculty
with unmatched expertise in AI. They
engage in innovative projects, benefit from strong industry connections, receive flexible learning options, and
have access to
dedicated career services.
The
Honours
Artificial Intelligence Bachelor’s degree
program
at Durham College
emphasizes ethical AI practices, preparing you
for
leader
ship positions
in this exciting
emergent
field.
In addition to your artificial intelligence courses,
y
ou
gain
experience working in the data analytics or AI industry.
In this portion of your artificial intelligence degree studies, your
contributions and success are evaluated in a real-world manner that builds on
the
knowledge
you will have already acquired
in the classroom.
There are many artificial intelligence programs you could choose from; Durham College offers you the course selections, world-class faculty, and experiential learning opportunities you won’t get anywhere else.
Join a vibrant, diverse community and transform your passion for AI into a successful career today.
Ask a
current Student
Intakes and Availability
Date
Domestic
Availability
International
Availability
September 2025
Open
Open
Apply now
Program
Highlights
Success Stories
Resources
Success Stories
Resources
Lead the way
2025 Program Guide
Read Now
Other Resources
HBAI Program Brochure
[Interactive]
Attend a Program Information Webinar
Financial Aid Information
Admission Requirements
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD) or
Mature Student Status
AND
Six Grade 12 U or M courses with a combined minimum average of 65% including:
Grade 12 U English with a final minimum grade of 60%
Grade 12 U Math with a final minimum grade of 60%
Recommended: Calculus and Vectors, Advanced Functions
OR
Six post-secondary credits with a combined minimum average of 65% including:
College or university English or communications with a final minimum grade of 60%
College or university math with a final minimum grade of 60%
Recommended: Calculus and Vectors, Advanced Functions
Contact our
admissions office
if you need clarification on the admissions requirements for our Honours Bachelors Degree Program in Artificial Intelligence.
Tuition
Year one domestic: $6,354 (CAD)
Year one international: $18,516 (CAD)
View full costs
Semester 1 Courses
Breadth Elective Credit (BRTH 00000)
Introduction To Artificial Intelligence (COSC 11000)
Introduction To Computer Programming (COSC 11001)
Introduction To Information Systems (INFT 11000)
Statistics (STAT 11000)
View all courses
Ministry Consent
Durham College has been granted consent by the Ministry of Colleges and Universities to offer this honours degree for a seven-year term starting January 7, 2021. In conformity with the Minister’s criteria and requirements, DC will submit an application for the renewal of the consent for this program 12 months prior to the expiration of the consent. DC will ensure that all students admitted to this program will have the opportunity to complete the program within a reasonable time frame.
Career Options
In the rapidly growing field of artificial intelligence, your career opportunities are boundless, spanning across numerous industries and creating opportunities for entrepreneurial work or jobs within existing large organizations.
WHAT YOU COULD BE:
AI, data or machine-learning engineer
Automation architect
Business intelligence analyst
Data analyst
Data analytics developer
Data scientist
Deep learning engineer
Machine Learning Engineer
Robotics Engineer
Computer Vision Engineer
Natural Language Processing (NLP) Engineer
AI Research Scientist
AI Product Manager
AI Consultant
AI Software Developer
AI Solutions Architect
Ethics Consultant in AI
AI Policy Advisor
AI Specialist
Healthcare AI Specialist
AI in Finance Analyst
View all career options
Connect
with us
I AM A CANADIAN APPLICANT
Contact recruitment
Live Chat
905.721.3126
Fill out the form to get more information on your program of interest, upcoming events, and how to become a Durham College student. By submitting your information below, you consent to Durham College contacting you via email and/or SMS with a minimum of 4 messages per month. You may withdraw consent at any time.
Durham College Programs
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Are you currently in high school?
Yes
No
Are you an International or Domestic subscriber
Please select...
Canadian Citizen
Permanent Resident
International
Postal or City
City
Postal
Postal Code
City/Town
Contact Preference
Email
Mobile Number (Standard message rates apply)
Both
Durham
College values the opportunity to provide you with information. Please provide
your mobile number below to allow us to continue to contact you SMS with a
minimum of 4 messages per month
Mobile
Answer here:
SPAMBOTS
reCAPTCHA helps prevent automated form spam.
The submit button will be disabled until you complete the CAPTCHA.
I HAVE ALREADY APPLIED
Email admissions
Live Chat
905.721.3000
I AM AN INTERNATIONAL APPLICANT
Contact
Live Chat
905.721.2000 ext. 7697
I HAVE ALREADY APPLIED
Please
contact the international office
.
Artificial Intelligence Program Details
Graduates of
Durham College’s
artificial intelligence
program will enter the workforce with specialized skills, including the ability to analyze, design, and implement AI systems using systematic methodologies.
Students in our artificial intelligence degree program will:
Develop AI models that leverage enterprise data to identify patterns, provide insights, recommend actions, and perform tasks autonomously throughout their artificial intelligence courses.
Effectively use AI and machine-learning algorithms to solve complex real-world problems, supported by a strong foundation in computer science, mathematics, and statistics.
Become adept at preparing and presenting analyses, reports, and recommendations for various audiences.
Conduct research, data analysis, model development, and solution deployment ethically, ensuring privacy and data integrity.
Apply project management tools to deliver AI systems on time, within budget and ensure compliance with corporate policies, ethical standards, and industry regulations.
Design and develop advanced AI-driven solutions, delivering measurable organizational value. This is a key outcome of our artificial intelligence degree.
Study artificial intelligence here at Durham College to gain the expertise needed to excel in the dynamic field of AI!
Program Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of your artificial intelligence courses, you can expect to understand and be able to do the following:
Evaluate data requirements and technical approaches for building an AI solution
by using systems analysis to align to business and client concerns.
Analyze and evaluate the nature and quality of input data to prepare data for
selected machine learning algorithms.
Build machine learning models by evaluating input data and identifying features
that meet the needs of the project.
Evaluate technical performance metrics, feasibility, legal, privacy, security, and
explainability requirements for each candidate design to select the socially
responsible, best performing, and technically appropriate AI solution for solving a
business problem.
Design and develop simulated environments according to project specifications
for testing the effectiveness of machine learning models.
Evaluate and provide justification for machine learning model outputs by
referencing algorithmic explainability and prediction interpretability to ensure
transparency and accountability.
Utilize data visualization techniques and user interaction designs to create
communication material for AI solutions, products, and user experiences for a
variety of stakeholders.
Adhere to ethical frameworks and legal guidelines to ensure the integrity,
confidentiality, and compliance in the delivery of AI solutions and
recommendations.
Collaborate as part of an interdisciplinary team to coordinate project deliverables
by applying professional communication, teambuilding and leadership skills, and
project management methodologies, tools, and techniques.
Develop software systems using modern programming languages, techniques,
and tools for deploying on different platforms.
Develop strategies to pursue continuing education and professional development
opportunities to enhance research skills and knowledge and skills in the field.
Artificial Intelligence Program Admission Requirements
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD) or
Mature Student Status
AND
Six Grade 12 U or M courses with a combined minimum average of 65% including:
Grade 12 U English with a final minimum grade of 60%
Grade 12 U Math with a final minimum grade of 60%
Recommended: Calculus and Vectors, Advanced Functions
OR
Six post-secondary credits with a combined minimum average of 65% including:
College or university English or communications with a final minimum grade of 60%
College or university math with a final minimum grade of 60%
Recommended: Calculus and Vectors, Advanced Functions
Contact our
admissions office
if you need clarification on the admissions requirements for our Honours Bachelors Degree Program in Artificial Intelligence.
Courses In The Artificial Intelligence Degree Program
The courses listed below are for incoming students. If you are a current student, please refer to your program of study for the year you began your program. Your program of study can be found on
MyDC
.
Semester 1
Breadth Elective Credit (BRTH 00000)
Introduction To Artificial Intelligence (COSC 11000)
Introduction To Computer Programming (COSC 11001)
Introduction To Information Systems (INFT 11000)
Statistics (STAT 11000)
Semester 2
Breadth Elective Credit (BRTH 00000)
Introduction To Data Science (COSC 12000)
Programming For Artificial Intelligence (COSC 12001)
Discrete Math (MATH 12000)
Linear Algebra (MATH 12001)
Semester 3
Breadth Elective Credit (BRTH 00000)
Introduction To Machine Learning (COSC 21000)
Data Structures And Algorithms (COSC 21001)
Ethics And Privacy In Artificial Intelligence (ETHC 21000)
Calculus (MATH 21000)
Semester 4
Breadth Elective Credit (BRTH 00000)
Machine Learning - Classification (COSC 22000)
Machine Learning - Regression (COSC 22001)
Data Management (INFT 22000)
Systems Analysis And Design (INFT 22001)
Semester 5
Breadth Elective Credit (BRTH 00000)
Introduction To Artificial Neural Networks (COSC 31000)
Data Visualization (COSC 31001)
Human-Computer Interaction (COSC 31002)
Societal And Legal Issues In Artificial Intelligence (LAWW 31000)
Semester 6
Breadth Elective Credit (BRTH 00000)
Machine Learning - Clustering And Dimensionality Reduction (COSC 32000)
Computer Vision (COSC 32001)
Natural Language Processing (COSC 32002)
Field Placement Preparation (FDPL 32000)
Research Methods (RSCH 32000)
SEMESTER F
Field Placement - Degree (HBAI 46001)
Semester 7
Breadth Elective Credit (BRTH 00000)
Advanced Neural Networks: Deep Learning For Sequential Analysis (COSC 41000)
Advanced Neural Networks: Deep Learning For Spatial Analysis (COSC 41001)
Deploying Artificial Intelligence Systems (INFT 41000)
Project Management (PJMT 41000)
Semester 8
Breadth Elective Credit (BRTH 00000)
Reinforcement Learning (COSC 42000)
Special Topics: Agile Artificial Intelligence (HBAI 42000)
Capstone Project (HBAI 42001)
Business Application Of Artificial Intelligence (INFT 42000)
Courses, course descriptions and delivery formats are subject to change.
Course delivery
In person
Students will come to campus to complete in-person learning requirements. Detailed schedules, with course-specific delivery information, will be available after registration. Courses, course descriptions and delivery formats are subject to change.
In person:
Course is delivered in person, on campus within a classroom, lab, shop or studio.
Hybrid:
Part of the course is delivered online, remotely, and part is in-person on campus within a classroom, lab, shop or studio.
Online:
Fully remote course delivery.
Costs For The Artificial Intelligence Bachelor’s Degree Program
Career Options for Artificial Intelligence Degree Graduates
Skills in artificial intelligence are in high demand and are expected to grow exponentially. Following the successful completion of your artificial intelligence courses, you could take on one of many interesting, challenging roles either in Canada or internationally!
WHAT YOU COULD BE:
AI, data or machine-learning engineer
Automation architect
Business intelligence analyst
Data analyst
Data analytics developer
Data scientist
Deep learning engineer
Machine Learning Engineer
Robotics Engineer
Computer Vision Engineer
Natural Language Processing (NLP) Engineer
AI Research Scientist
AI Product Manager
AI Consultant
AI Software Developer
AI Solutions Architect
Ethics Consultant in AI
AI Policy Advisor
AI Specialist
Healthcare AI Specialist
AI in Finance Analyst
WHERE YOU COULD WORK:
Technology companies
Start-ups
Financial institutions
Health care providers
Research organizations
Government agencies
Automotive companies
E-commerce companies
Robotics companies
Consulting firms
Telecommunications companies
Aerospace and defense companies
Entertainment and media companies
Pharmaceutical companies
Manufacturing companies
Energy companies
Cybersecurity firms
Experiential Learning
The work-integrated learning experience is an integral part of the Honours Bachelor of Artificial Intelligence p
rogram
.
By combining hands-on experience in
data analytics and artificial intelligence with
their
academic
work
, student
s
gain a
better understand
ing of these
methods and techniques
and learn valuable lessons in
how to work
collaboratively with
others.
Work-integrated learning experiences are
designed to
support the
learning outcomes of the
Artificial Intelligence program
. Students experience working in the data analytics or artificial intelligence industry
,
where
their
contributions and success are evaluated in a real-world manner
,
build
ing
on
the
knowledge acquired in
the classroom.
Program Transfer, Degree Completion and Additional Credentials
For information about how you can use your Honours Bachelor’s Degree in Artificial Intelligence toward other programs, degrees, and credentials, please visit:
www.durhamcollege.ca/pathways
Looking for more pathway opportunities or to transfer to Durham College? Click
here
for more information.
Tech Requirements for Artificial Intelligence Courses
To help students have the best learning experience possible, Durham College’s IT Services department has identified technology recommendations for the Artificial Intelligence program. Students may will want to consider these suggestions if they are purchasing a computer or laptop for the upcoming academic year.
MINIMUM REQUIRED HARDWARE
Intel I7 or AMD Ryzen 7 processor or better with chipset that must support virtualization
16 GB of RAM
1 TB hard drive
Ethernet Network Card or USB to Ethernet adapter
Wireless Network Card
One USB 3.0 port (two preferred)
Webcam
Microphone (headset preferred)
SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS
Windows 10 Professional Edition
Meet the Faculty for Our Artificial Intelligence Courses
Durham College is proud to have a range of highly experienced professionals and renowned academics as instructors and mentors for our Honours Bachelor of Artificial Intelligence program. Bringing with them their varied academic and work-related backgrounds, our faculty members provide an educational experience that is unequalled among AI courses in Canada.
Laith Adi
Faculty Member, Faculty of Science, Engineering & Information Technology (SEIT)
Masters of Science Mathematics: Statistics and Data Analytics
AWS Cloud Practitioner, AWS Certified Data Analytics Specialty, GCP Certified Associate Cloud Engineer
Aparna Das
Faculty Member, Faculty of Science, Engineering & Information Technology (SEIT)
PhD, (Mathematics), University of Nice Sophia Antipolis, France
Noopa Jagadeesh
Faculty Member, Faculty of Science, Engineering & Information Technology (SEIT)
Masters of Science in Computer Science, Ontario Tech University (Canada)
Masters, Cybersecurity, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham (India)
Aria Perez
Faculty Member, Faculty of Science, Engineering & Information Technology (SEIT)
MSc (Geology and Physics), University of Toronto
MA (Applied Mathematics), York University
Sajeeva Salgadoe
Faculty Member, Faculty of Science, Engineering & Information Technology (SEIT)
(Computer Science), OntarioTech University, Canada
MSc (Computer Engineering), Warsaw University of Technology, Poland
Priyamvada Tripathi
Faculty Member, Faculty of Science, Engineering & Information Technology (SEIT)
(Computer Science), Arizona State University, Tempe, USA
Sc. (Computer Science), Arizona State University, Tempe, USA
Sc. (Computer Science), St. Fancis College, Osmania University, Hyderabad, India
Entrance Award
All eligible applicants to the Honours Bachelor of Artificial Intelligence
degree program for
the upcoming academic year
, with a combined minimum non-weighted average
of 75 percent and higher
, will be considered to receive a first-year entrance award:
75% average – $500
80% average – $1,500
85% average – $2,000
90% average – $3,000
For more information, please contact
Admission Services.