https://durhamcollege.ca/programs/behavioural-science-honours-bachelor-social-service-worker-pathway-to-degree

Behavioural Science – Honours Bachelor (Social Service Worker pathway to degree)
Ministry-approved title: Bachelor of Behavioural Science
Credential
Bachelor’s degree (honours)
Location
Oshawa
OCAS Code
HBBK
Next Intake
September 2025
View all intakes
Faculty
Faculty of Social & Community Services (SCS)
Length
Nine semesters
Laptop
Learn more
about laptop requirements
Delivery
In person
Learn more
.

Overview
Apply Now
Domestic application
International application
Overview
Program Details
Admission Requirements
Courses
Costs
Career Options
Experiential Learning
Transfer
Tech Requirements
Faculty Experts
Book a tour
Ask a Current Student
Connect with us
Apply Now
Domestic application
International application
Overview
Program Details
Admission Requirements
Courses
Costs
Career Options
Experiential Learning
Pathways
Tech Requirements
Meet Your Faculty Experts
Your Next Steps
Book a tour
Ask a Current Student
Connect with us
Apply Now
Program Overview
Designed specifically for graduates who hold an Ontario College Diploma in Social Service Worker (SSWK). This unique streamlined pathway to a degree allows students to earn an Honours Bachelor in Behavioural Science with a reduced course load.
In addition to a focus on the behavioural sciences, the program includes essential curriculum elements aimed at developing the professional and therapeutic communication skills that are vital to success in the field. Equipped with the real-work experience gained through a 420-hour field placement, graduates go on to draw on this science and communication foundation to effectively collaborate with other health professionals, clients and their caregivers.
Ask a
current Student
Intakes and Availability
Date
Domestic
Availability
International
Availability
September 2025
Open
Apply now
Program
Highlights
Success Stories
Resources
Success Stories
Resources
Lead the way
2025 Program Guide
Read Now
Other Resources
Attend a Program Information Webinar
Financial Aid Information
Admission Requirements
Ontario College Diploma in Social Service Worker with a minimum average of 60 per cent to be eligible to receive block of transfer credits.
Tuition
Year one domestic: $6,065 (CAD)
Year one international: $18,227 (CAD)
View full costs
Semester 1 Courses
Breadth Elective Credit (BRTH 00000)
Communications 1: Critical Thinking and Writing (COMM 11010)
Applied Behaviour Analysis: Concepts and Principles (PSYC 16001)
Basic Behaviour Analysis (RSCH 16001)
View all courses
Career Options
WHAT YOU COULD BE:
Instructor Therapist
Educational assistant
Behaviour Therapist
Community Behaviour Consultant
Community Support Worker (Behaviour Specialization)
Behaviour Associate
View all career options
Connect
with us
I AM A CANADIAN APPLICANT
Contact recruitment
Live Chat
905.721.3126
Fill out the form to get more information on your program of interest, upcoming events, and how to become a Durham College student. By submitting your information below, you consent to Durham College contacting you via email and/or SMS with a minimum of 4 messages per month. You may withdraw consent at any time.
Durham College Programs
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Are you currently in high school?
Yes
No
Are you an International or Domestic subscriber
Please select...
Canadian Citizen
Permanent Resident
International
Postal or City
City
Postal
Postal Code
City/Town
Contact Preference
Email
Mobile Number (Standard message rates apply)
Both
Durham
College values the opportunity to provide you with information. Please provide
your mobile number below to allow us to continue to contact you SMS with a
minimum of 4 messages per month
Mobile
Answer here:
SPAMBOTS
reCAPTCHA helps prevent automated form spam.
The submit button will be disabled until you complete the CAPTCHA.
I HAVE ALREADY APPLIED
Email admissions
Live Chat
905.721.3000
I AM AN INTERNATIONAL APPLICANT
Contact
Live Chat
905.721.2000 ext. 7697
I HAVE ALREADY APPLIED
Please
contact the international office
.
Program Details
The Honours Bachelor of Behavioural Science (HBBS) is designed to provide students with professional competencies that link science, clinical, communication and ethical aspects of behavioural science. There is a strong focus on Applied Behaviour Analysis, Cognitive Behavioural therapy, acceptance and mindfulness-based therapies, to ensure that graduates possess broad knowledge, skills and judgement, leading to a variety of professional employment opportunities or future studies, including at the master’s degree level. The HBBS program examines the application of these theories for individuals across the lifespan and a variety of settings.
The approach taken in the program is reflective of the application of behavioural sciences in community organizations to teach adaptive skills and decrease challenging behaviours for clients including children, youth and adults with Autism Spectrum Disorder and other developmental disabilities, individuals with acquired brain injury and those with behaviour issues associated with addictions, mental health and illness, and dementia.
Along with the behavioural sciences, the HBBS program includes essential curriculum elements aimed at developing the professional and therapeutic communication skills that are vital to success in the field. Equipped with the real-work experience gained through a 420-hour field placement, graduates go on to draw on this science and communication foundation to effectively collaborate with other health professionals, clients and their caregivers.
Program Learning Outcomes
Develop, plan, implement and monitor conceptually systematic assessment and treatment approaches to address important behavioural issues.
Analyze contemporary psychological and behavioural science theories and methodologies in multiple areas of investigation and practice.
Practice and conduct research in accordance with ethical, professional, organizational and legal standards.
Analyze and apply quantitative and single-case research designs to support best practices and principles in the behavioural sciences.
Communicate effectively through written, oral, and visual media with individuals, groups and other professionals.
Evaluate the ways in which culture, special populations and human diversity influence behaviour and response to behavioural interventions.
Apply negotiation and mediation skills in supporting individuals, groups and organizations.
Investigate and implement plans for professional development and engage in lifelong learning to enhance professional competence.
Develop strategies and plans that lead to the promotion of self-care, improved professional performance, and enhanced work relationships.
Apply professional and clinical competencies in the context of an interdisciplinary setting with a variety of clients, their support networks, professionals, and the community.
Apply leadership skills to communicate, consult, and collaborate with stakeholders to achieve socially significant goals.
Analyze complex behaviour analytic concepts and practices related to language and cognition.
Admission Requirements
Ontario College Diploma in Social Service Worker with a minimum average of 60 per cent to be eligible to receive block of transfer credits.
Courses
The courses listed below are for incoming students. If you are a current student, please refer to your program of study for the year you began your program. Your program of study can be found on
MyDC
.
SEMESTER 1
Breadth Elective Credit (BRTH 00000)
Communications 1: Critical Thinking and Writing (COMM 11010)
Applied Behaviour Analysis: Concepts and Principles (PSYC 16001)
Basic Behaviour Analysis (RSCH 16001)
SEMESTER 2
Breadth Elective Credit (BRTH 00000)
Applied Behaviour Analysis: Establishing New Behaviour (PSYC 16004)
Foundations In Cognitive Behaviour Therapy (CBT) (PSYC 16006)
Autism Spectrum Disorder and Developmental Disabilities (SOCI 16001)
SEMESTER 3
Breadth Elective Credit (BRTH 00000)
Ethics In Applied Behaviour Analysis (ETHC 26001)
Applied Behaviour Analysis: Assessment and Intervention (PSYC 26001)
Statistics (STAT 26001)
SEMESTER 4
Applied Behaviour Analysis: Elements and Systems Of Behaviour Change (PSYC 26003)
Cognitive and Behaviour Therapy: Applications Of Contemporary Approaches (PSYC 26004)
Quantitative Research Methods (RSCH 26001)
Acquired Brain Injury (SOCI 26001)
SEMESTER 5
Behavioural Perspectives On Language, Cognition, and Thinking (LING 36001)
Applications Of Behaviour Analysis (PSYC 36001)
Behavioural Pharmacology (PSYC 36002)
Single Case Research Designs (RSCH 36001)
SEMESTER 6
Field Placement Preparation (Required Non-Credit) (FDLP 46001)
Organizational Behaviour Management (PSYC 36004)
Acceptance and Mindfulness Based Therapies (PSYC 36005)
Addictions (SOCI 36001)
Psychometrics (STAT 36001)
SEMESTER F
Field Placement - Degree (HBBS 46001)
SEMESTER 7
Breadth Elective Credit (BRTH 00000)
Behaviourism: Theory, Philosophy, and Society (PSYC 46001)
Thesis Project: Research Proposal Seminar (RSCH 46001)
Older Adults (SOCI 46001)
SEMESTER 8
Reflective Practice, Professional Development and Interpersonal Collaboration (ETHC 46001)
Analysis Of Language In The Clinical Conversation (LING 46001)
Advanced Topics In Applied Behaviour Analysis (PSYC 46002)
Thesis Project: Research Analysis and Summary (RSCH 46002)
Courses, course descriptions and delivery formats are subject to change.
Course delivery
In person
Students will come to campus to complete in-person learning requirements. Detailed schedules, with course-specific delivery information, will be available after registration. Courses, course descriptions and delivery formats are subject to change.
In person:
Course is delivered in person, on campus within a classroom, lab, shop or studio.
Hybrid:
Part of the course is delivered online, remotely, and part is in-person on campus within a classroom, lab, shop or studio.
Online:
Fully remote course delivery.
Costs
Career Options
WHAT YOU COULD BE:
Instructor Therapist
Educational assistant
Behaviour Therapist
Community Behaviour Consultant
Community Support Worker (Behaviour Specialization)
Behaviour Associate
WHERE YOU COULD WORK:
Elementary or secondary school boards
Early intervention programs
Clinical programs
Community agencies
Private family setting
Public or private-sector agencies
Experiential Learning
Students will have the opportunity to apply the theories, concepts and strategies they have learned in a supervised setting through a 98-hour observatory practicum in Semester 5 and a 420-hour field placement between the sixth and seventh semesters. This allow students to gain hands-on, real work experience in a variety of supervised organizational settings to help build their resumes and begin establishing professional networks.
PRE-PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS
Please note:
There are costs associated with Electronic Student Permit Checking (ESPC), immunizations, lab tests and certifications. Be sure to keep all of your receipts for income tax purposes. These costs include:
Service fees for
Verified
, our documentation collection and ESPC verification partner.
Costs to complete mandatory immunizations, lab tests, and certifications.
It is required that students have completed the ESPC with Verified to be eligible for the field placement components of this program.
Program Transfer, Degree Completion and Additional Credentials
Social Service Worker pathway to Degree Transfer:
Students eligible for the pathway will receive the following transfer credits:
Introduction to Psychology (PSYC 16002)
Therapeutic Communications Skills (PSYC 16003)
Developmental Psychology (PSYC 16005)
Introduction to Abnormal Psychology (PSYC 26002)
Behavioural Approaches to Parenting, Family Relationships and Group Processes (PSYC 36003)
Breadth Elective Credit (BRTH 00000)
Breadth Elective Credit (BRTH 00000)
Breadth Elective Credit (BRTH 00000)
Program Transfer, Degree Completion and Additional Credentials:
Graduates will be well-prepared to pursue further studies at the graduate level, including graduate certificates and a master’s degree.
Recent graduates have been accepted into the following master's degree programs:
Western University – Master of Professional Education, Applied Behaviour Analysis
Brock University – Master of Applied Disability Studies
Ontario Tech University – Master of Applied Health Science
Looking for more pathway opportunities or to transfer to Durham College? Click
here
for more information.
Tech Requirements
To help students have the best learning experience possible, Durham College’s IT Services department has identified technology recommendations for each program based on course needs and software requirements. While not required, students may want to consider these suggestions if they are purchasing a computer or laptop for the upcoming academic year.
Processor
: i3
RAM
: 4GB
Storage
: 256GB SSD
Operating System:
Microsoft Windows 10 Professional or Education x64 SP1
Internet Browser
: Internet Explorer 11 or Google Chrome (newest version) or Firefox (newest version)
Network Adapter
: 802.11ac 2.4/5 GHz wireless adapter
Camera:
Webcam
/
built-in camera
Internet connection
Questions regarding technology recommendations can be directed to the
IT Service Desk
or the
school office
.
Meet Your Faculty Experts
Courtney Bishop
Faculty Member, Faculty of Social & Community Services (SCS)
Courtney Bishop holds a PhD in Child and Youth Studies from Brock University and is a Board Certified Behaviour Analyst working in community-based settings as a researcher. Her focus is on improving policy and practices in organizations supporting adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities through the use of community-engaged methods.
Sarah Drexler
Faculty Member, Faculty of Social & Community Services (SCS)
Sarah is a board-certified behavior analyst (BCBA) who has provided behavioural consultation to children and adults with developmental disabilities. Sarah has extensive experience supporting people with complex behavioural needs over the past 18 years. Sarah holds a Masters of Applied Disability Studies from Brock University and a Doctorate of Education from Western University.  Sarah has been a full-time faculty at Durham College, teaching and developing curriculum for the past four years and has been acting as Program Coordinator for the Honours Bachelor of Behavioural Science since 2021.