https://durhamcollege.ca/programs/dental-office-administration

Dental Office Administration
Ministry-approved title: Dental Office Administration
Credential
Ontario College Certificate
Location
Oshawa
OCAS Code
DOFA
Next Intake
September 2025
View all intakes
Faculty
Faculty of Health Sciences (HS)
Length
Two semesters
Laptop
Learn more
about laptop requirements
Delivery
In person
Learn more
.

Overview
Apply Now
Domestic application
International application
Overview
Program Details
Admission Requirements
Courses
Costs
Career Options
Field Placement
Transfer
Tech Requirements
Book a tour
Ask a Current Student
Connect with us
Apply Now
Domestic application
International application
Overview
Program Details
Admission Requirements
Courses
Costs
Career Options
Field Placement
Pathways
Tech Requirements
Your Next Steps
Book a tour
Ask a Current Student
Connect with us
Apply Now
Dental Office Administration Program Overview
A d
ental
receptionist or administrator
plays
a vital role
in a dental office, much of which may not be seen by clients. The dental receptionist and administrator ensures the smooth operation of the dental practice by performing
operations such as processing information, utilizing both paper and electronic management systems, scheduling
,
maintaining financial records,
and handling insurance claims
.
Using their proficient interpersonal skills,
the dental receptionist or administrator
create
s
a
personal and professional
connection between clients and dentists by coordinating requests from both parties. A
good dental receptionist and administrator who is trained in both administrative and interpersonal aspects of the job, supports successful and efficient practices in the dental office.
By communicating clearly and effectively with insurance providers, the dental receptionist or administrator and make the claims process considerably less stressful for both the dental clients and the insurance company representatives.
The Dental Office Administration program at Durham College
offers a unique blend of academic learning and practical applications to provide a graduate with the skills, knowledge and professionalism to manage dental office business applications,
and serve as the interface between various parties in the provision of dental services. Durham College’s Dental programs are highly regarded within the dental community.
Graduate
s
of the
Dental Office Administration program
are eligible to write a certification examination through the Ontario Dental Assistants Association.
Ask a
current Student
Intakes and Availability
Date
Domestic
Availability
International
Availability
September 2025
Open
Open
Apply now
Program
Highlights
DC Experience
Resources
DC Experience
Resources
Lead the way
2025 Program Guide
Read Now
Other Resources
Attend a Program Information Webinar
Financial Aid Information
Admission Requirements
To apply to the Dental Office Administration program, you will first need:
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD) or
Mature Student Status
AND
Grade 12 English (C or U) (minimum 60 per cent)
Are you missing admission requirements? We are here to help.
Durham College (DC) offers pre-admission assessment testing to mature domestic applicants to meet admission requirements in English and/or math. Domestic applicants that are 19 years of age or older as of the start date of their program, and who do not have the required program credit(s) i.e., Grade 12 English and/or Grade 12 math are eligible to take an admissions assessment test.
Learn more about how to book Pre-Admission Assessment Testing
here
.
DC also offers Academic upgrading courses are
FREE
and designed to help you meet the admissions requirements for this program. Available to individuals 18+, these courses are offered on-campus at DC. Boost your qualifications with:
Grade 12 Math (MAP4C equivalent)
Grade 12 English (ENG4C equivalent)
Grade 11 Biology (SBI3C equivalent)
Grade 12 Chemistry (SCH4C equivalent)
Learn more about
Academic Upgrading
and connect with our team to get started.
Tuition
Year one domestic: $2,722 (CAD)
Year one international: $14,884 (CAD)
View full costs
Semester 1 Courses
In your first semester of the Dental Administration program, you will build a foundation for your subsequent learning and development. You will complete dental receptionist and administration coursework in communication skills, dental anatomy and technology, and emotional self-regulation. This learning will make it easier to support dental professionals and to communicate with clients clearly and efficiently while maintaining a professional demeanor.
In addition, you will explore the fundamentals of dental office management, including financial management, productivity software, and strategies for handling office operations and learn infection prevention and control procedures. This dental receptionist and administration course content will get you started on the road to becoming an effective dental office manager.
Academic Communication Essentials (COMM 1715)
Productivity Software for The Workplace (COMP 1109)
Dental Office Management 1 (DENT 1100)
Dental Anatomy and Technology for Office Administrator (DENT 1101)
Managing Dental Office Finances (FINC 1102)
Illnesses and Emotional Self-Regulation (HLTH 1105)
View all courses
Career Options
WHAT YOU COULD BE:
Administrative assistant
Administrative officer
Dental administrator
Dental office manager
Dental receptionist
Dental records manager
Treatment plan coordinator
Billing and insurance administrator
View all career options
Connect
with us
I AM A CANADIAN APPLICANT
Contact recruitment
Live Chat
905.721.3126
Fill out the form to get more information on your program of interest, upcoming events, and how to become a Durham College student. By submitting your information below, you consent to Durham College contacting you via email and/or SMS with a minimum of 4 messages per month. You may withdraw consent at any time.
Durham College Programs
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Are you currently in high school?
Yes
No
Are you an International or Domestic subscriber
Please select...
Canadian Citizen
Permanent Resident
International
Postal or City
City
Postal
Postal Code
City/Town
Contact Preference
Email
Mobile Number (Standard message rates apply)
Both
Durham
College values the opportunity to provide you with information. Please provide
your mobile number below to allow us to continue to contact you SMS with a
minimum of 4 messages per month
Mobile
Answer here:
SPAMBOTS
reCAPTCHA helps prevent automated form spam.
The submit button will be disabled until you complete the CAPTCHA.
I HAVE ALREADY APPLIED
Email admissions
Live Chat
905.721.3000
I AM AN INTERNATIONAL APPLICANT
Contact
Live Chat
905.721.2000 ext. 7697
I HAVE ALREADY APPLIED
Please
contact the international office
.
Dental Office Administration Program Details
Durham College’s Dental Administration
program will prepare you to maintain a collaborative relationship with clients and all members of your
oral
health care team while delivering the highest level of client-centered care.
Your dental receptionist and administration courses
will prepare you to be a multi-skilled, ethically responsible dental administration professional.
In the Dental Office Administration program, y
ou will
learn about the
latest computer software used in dental offices
and how to use it
to process information such as insurance claims.
You will also learn process is vital to the work of the dental receptionist or administrator such as
appointment management
and
scheduling
.
The Dental Office Administration program provides students with
the
essential
dental receptionist
and administration
skills
needed
to manage dental practices efficiently
and confidently
. Examples of learning include dental terminology, daily office operations
, banking procedures, professional relations, sterilization techniques and infection control protocols.
As part of the Dental Administration program,
you
will also
gain practical experience and
begin
networking through
a
field placement in
one or more working
dental offices.
Program Learning Outcomes
Upon completing the Dental Office Administration program, you can expect to understand and be able to do the following:
Assist in establishing dental office systems and software applications to ensure patient information is processed and securely stored.
Manage the administrative and financial operations of a dental office while complying with organizational policies and governing guidelines.
Utilize knowledge of dental procedures, technology, imaging, structures and conditions when supporting client centered care and maintaining client records.
Employ effective communication, leadership and conflict resolution strategies to interact with diverse clients and colleagues when supporting the requirements of the daily operations of a dental practice.
Support dental environment infection prevention and emergency protocols to maintain safe practice.
Maintain a positive image and office environment through reflective practice and adherence with professional and ethical standards.
Contribute to the promotion and operations of a dental practice by using technology and communication strategies.
Dental Office Administration Admission Requirements
To apply to the Dental Office Administration program, you will first need:
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD) or
Mature Student Status
AND
Grade 12 English (C or U) (minimum 60 per cent)
Are you missing admission requirements? We are here to help.
Durham College (DC) offers pre-admission assessment testing to mature domestic applicants to meet admission requirements in English and/or math. Domestic applicants that are 19 years of age or older as of the start date of their program, and who do not have the required program credit(s) i.e., Grade 12 English and/or Grade 12 math are eligible to take an admissions assessment test.
Learn more about how to book Pre-Admission Assessment Testing
here
.
DC also offers Academic upgrading courses are
FREE
and designed to help you meet the admissions requirements for this program. Available to individuals 18+, these courses are offered on-campus at DC. Boost your qualifications with:
Grade 12 Math (MAP4C equivalent)
Grade 12 English (ENG4C equivalent)
Grade 11 Biology (SBI3C equivalent)
Grade 12 Chemistry (SCH4C equivalent)
Learn more about
Academic Upgrading
and connect with our team to get started.
Dental Office Administration Program Courses
The courses listed below are for incoming students. If you are a current student, please refer to your program of study for the year you began your program. Your program of study can be found on
MyDC
.
Semester 1
Academic Communication Essentials (COMM 1715)
Productivity Software for The Workplace (COMP 1109)
Dental Office Management 1 (DENT 1100)
Dental Anatomy and Technology for Office Administrator (DENT 1101)
Managing Dental Office Finances (FINC 1102)
Illnesses and Emotional Self-Regulation (HLTH 1105)
Semester 2
Information Systems (COMP 1216)
Dental Practice (DENT 1200)
Dental Office Management 2 (DENT 1201)
Dental Theory and Imaging (DENT 1202)
Field Placement 1 (DOFA 1200)
Field Placement 2 (DOFA 1201)
Professionalism and Client Relations (ETHC 1201)
Field Placement Preparation (FDPL 1201)
Courses, course descriptions and delivery formats are subject to change.
Course delivery
In person
Students will come to campus to complete in-person learning requirements. Detailed schedules, with course-specific delivery information, will be available after registration. Courses, course descriptions and delivery formats are subject to change.
In person:
Course is delivered in person, on campus within a classroom, lab, shop or studio.
Hybrid:
Part of the course is delivered online, remotely, and part is in-person on campus within a classroom, lab, shop or studio.
Online:
Fully remote course delivery.
Costs For The Dental Office Administration Program
Career Options for Dental Office Administration Program Graduates
Completing the Dental Office Administration program will equip you to take on a role in a dental practice or hospital. With the introduction of Canada's new Canadian Dental Care Plan (CDCP), there will likely be an increase in the number of jobs available in the dental receptionist or administration area.
Many of the skills you will learn in the Dental Administration program can be transferred to other roles; when you are looking for work in the area, we encourage you to also consider jobs that are not in a dental office if that interests you!
WHAT YOU COULD BE:
Administrative assistant
Administrative officer
Dental administrator
Dental office manager
Dental receptionist
Dental records manager
Treatment plan coordinator
Billing and insurance administrator
WHERE YOU COULD WORK:
General and specialty dental practices
Hospital, chronic care and correctional institution dental clinics
H
ealth-related offices
Dental supply and equipment companies
Insurance companies that provide dental insurance
Dental labs
Educational institutions
Nonprofit organizations and NGOs
Field Placement
The Dental Office Administration program includes two field placements for a total of 80 hours in a working dental practice.
The field placements will allow you to f
urther your knowledge, skill
s
and
competencies, w
hile giving
you additional hands-on learning opportunities to observe and apply classroom theory to an occupational setting.
You will be able to practice your dental receptionist and administration skills under the supervision of an experienced professional during  your placements.
Field Placement 1
is completed during
Semester 2 and Field Placement 2
is completed
immediately following Semester 2.
PRE-PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS
For the field placement portion of the Dental Administration program, there are several requirements which must be met in advance. Please begin the process of meeting these requirements well in advance, as it may delay your field placement if you do not have them.
Please note: There are costs associated with Electronic Requirements Verification (ERV), immunizations, lab tests and certifications.
Be sure to keep all of your receipts for income tax purposes.
These costs include:
Service fees for
Verified
, our documentation collection and ERV verification partner.
Costs to complete mandatory immunizations, lab tests, and certifications.
It is required that students have completed the ERV with Verified to be eligible for the field placement component of this program.
You must (at your expense) provide:
Current Level C CPR from a recognized provider
Current standard first aid certification from a recognized provider
Entry immunization form completed by a health-care provider
Links:
Dental Office Administration ERV Information Package
Verified ERV User Guide
Program Transfer, Degree Completion and Additional Credentials
Graduates are eligible to obtain certification through the Ontario Dental Assistants Association (ODAA).
Looking for more pathway opportunities or to transfer to Durham College? Click
here
for more information.
Tech Requirements for dental office administration students
To help students have the best learning experience possible, Durham College’s IT Services department has identified technology recommendations for
dental administration courses in the Dental Office Administration program.
While not required, students may want to consider these suggestions if they are purchasing a computer or laptop for the upcoming academic year.
Tech Requirements
for dental office administration students
Processor
: i3
RAM
: 4GB
Storage
: 256GB SSD
Operating System:
Microsoft Windows 10 Professional or Education x64 SP1
Internet Browser
: Internet Explorer 11 or Google Chrome (newest version) or Firefox (newest version)
Network Adapter
: 802.11ac 2.4/5 GHz wireless adapter
Camera:
Webcam
/
built-in camera
Internet connection
Questions regarding technology recommendations can be directed to the
IT Service Desk
or the
school office
.