https://durhamcollege.ca/programs/dental-hygiene

Dental Hygiene
Ministry-approved title: Dental Hygiene
Credential
Ontario College Advanced Diploma
Location
Oshawa
OCAS Code
DENT
Next Intake
May 2025
View all intakes
Faculty
Faculty of Health Sciences (HS)
Length
Six semesters
Laptop
Learn more
about laptop requirements
Delivery
In person
Learn more
.

Overview
Apply Now
Domestic application
International application
Overview
Program Details
Admission Requirements
Courses
Costs
Career Options
Clinical Practice
Transfer
Tech Requirements
See your Space
Book a tour
Ask a Current Student
Connect with us
Apply Now
Domestic application
International application
Overview
Program Details
Admission Requirements
Courses
Costs
Career Options
Clinical Practice
Pathways
Tech Requirements
See your Space
Your Next Steps
Book a tour
Ask a Current Student
Connect with us
Apply Now
Program Overview
Specializing in preventive oral health, dental hygienists work collaboratively with other health professionals to provide client-
centred
care. Equipped with knowledge of current standards of practice, ethical
principles
and a dedication to oral health, you will give your clients another reason to smile.
DC’s Dental Hygiene program emphasizes hands-on learning opportunitie
s
and students will hone their skills through clinical practice
at the college’s Dental Clinic
.
Ask a
current Student
Intakes and Availability
Date
Domestic
Availability
International
Availability
May 2025
Open
Closed
Apply now
September 2025
Open
Apply now
May 2026
Open
Apply now
Program
Highlights
Success Stories
Resources
Success Stories
Resources
Lead the way
2025 Program Guide
Read Now
Other Resources
Attend a Program Information Webinar
Financial Aid Information
Admission Requirements
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD) or
Mature Student Status
AND
Grade 12 English (C or U) (minimum 60 per cent average)
Grade 11 or 12 biology (C, M or U)
Grade 11 or 12 chemistry (C, M or U)
Grade 11 or 12 mathematics (C, M or U)
Please note: This program may be highly competitive and have a specific selection process and application deadline. Please refer to
Admission Process
es
for details regarding highly competitive programs.
Tuition
Year one domestic: $8,968 (CAD)
View full costs
Semester 1 Courses
Microbiology and Infection Control (BIOL 1104)
Communications for The Dental Health Professional (COMM 1112)
Dental Radiography 1 (DENT 1107)
Orofacial Anatomy 1 (DENT 1108)
Introduction to Dental Materials (DENT 1109)
Dental Hygiene Theory and Practice (DENT 1110)
Introduction to Professional Practice (DENT 1111)
View all courses
Career Options
WHAT YOU COULD BE:
Dental hygienist
View all career options
Connect
with us
I AM A CANADIAN APPLICANT
Contact recruitment
Live Chat
905.721.3126
Fill out the form to get more information on your program of interest, upcoming events, and how to become a Durham College student. By submitting your information below, you consent to Durham College contacting you via email and/or SMS with a minimum of 4 messages per month. You may withdraw consent at any time.
Durham College Programs
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Are you currently in high school?
Yes
No
Are you an International or Domestic subscriber
Please select...
Canadian Citizen
Permanent Resident
International
Postal or City
City
Postal
Postal Code
City/Town
Contact Preference
Email
Mobile Number (Standard message rates apply)
Both
Durham
College values the opportunity to provide you with information. Please provide
your mobile number below to allow us to continue to contact you SMS with a
minimum of 4 messages per month
Mobile
Answer here:
SPAMBOTS
reCAPTCHA helps prevent automated form spam.
The submit button will be disabled until you complete the CAPTCHA.
I HAVE ALREADY APPLIED
Email admissions
Live Chat
905.721.3000
I AM AN INTERNATIONAL APPLICANT
Contact
Live Chat
905.721.2000 ext. 7697
I HAVE ALREADY APPLIED
Please
contact the international office
.
Program Details
The Dental Hygiene program prepares future dental hygienists to become leaders in the promotion of oral health. Integrating academic studies and clinical practice, the program prepares you to practice with the client and the community, providing collaborative oral health care in a variety of settings. The dental hygiene process of care is foundational to the clinical experience, emphasizing the acquisition of critical thinking skills while fostering a client-
centred
approach and upholding the most current standards of practice and ethical principles.
Your acquisition of skills will progress from the demonstration of learning on a mannequin to student partners, followed by clients in the college’s Dental Clinic.
Dental hygiene is a self-regulated
profession
,
and graduates must successfully complete the
N
ational
board exam and registration requirements as
determined
by the College of Registered Dental Hygienists of Ontario. This program is accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation of Canada.
Please note: This six-semester, advanced diploma program has September and May intakes and is a 3-1-3 delivery model. This means students complete Semesters 1 through 3, then they have one semester off before completing Semesters 4 through 6.
Program Learning Outcomes
Practice in a professional and competent manner within the defined scope of practice and consistent with current regulations and standards of practice.
Evaluate the client’s oral health status using determinants of health and risk analysis to identify needs, justify treatment decisions and provide appropriate referrals to other health care professionals, as required.
Design, implement and evaluate a range of primary, interceptive, therapeutic, preventive, and on-going oral health care services to meet the unique needs of clients.
Analyze oral health issues in need of advocacy identify networks and promote actions that will support change and facilitate access to care.
Identify, select, implement and evaluate quality assurance standards and protocols which contribute to a safe and effective working environment.
Establish and maintain professional and inter-professional relationships which contribute to client-care safety and positive health-care outcomes.
Facilitate the development of specific oral health attitudes, knowledge, skills, and behaviours, in client’s, by selecting and utilizing principles of teaching and learning.
Develop and present a model for a dental hygiene practice that addresses relevant business principles, current legislation and standards of practice.
Admission Requirements
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD) or
Mature Student Status
AND
Grade 12 English (C or U) (minimum 60 per cent average)
Grade 11 or 12 biology (C, M or U)
Grade 11 or 12 chemistry (C, M or U)
Grade 11 or 12 mathematics (C, M or U)
Please note: This program may be highly competitive and have a specific selection process and application deadline. Please refer to
Admission Process
es
for details regarding highly competitive programs.
Courses
The courses listed below are for incoming students. If you are a current student, please refer to your program of study for the year you began your program. Your program of study can be found on
MyDC
.
Semester 1
Microbiology and Infection Control (BIOL 1104)
Communications for The Dental Health Professional (COMM 1112)
Dental Radiography 1 (DENT 1107)
Orofacial Anatomy 1 (DENT 1108)
Introduction to Dental Materials (DENT 1109)
Dental Hygiene Theory and Practice (DENT 1110)
Introduction to Professional Practice (DENT 1111)
Semester 2
Anatomy and Physiology (ANAT 1200)
Dental Radiography 2 (DENT 1208)
Orofacial Anatomy 2 (DENT 1210)
Dental Hygiene Practice 2 (DENT 1211)
Dental Hygiene Theory 2 (DENT 1212)
Histology and Embryology (DENT 1213)
Preventive Dental Hygiene (DENT 1214)
Semester 3
Human Pathophysiology (BIOL 2102)
Advanced Dental Materials (DENT 2100)
Dental Hygiene Practice 3 (DENT 2101)
Dental Hygiene Theory 3 (DENT 2102)
Periodontics (DENT 2103)
Indigenous Elective (INDG 0000)
Pharmacology (PHRM 2100)
Semester 4
Principles Of Community Health (DENT 2200)
Dental Hygiene Practice 4 (DENT 2201)
Dental Hygiene Theory and Advanced Periodontics (DENT 2202)
Nutrition and Oral Health (DENT 2203)
Oral Pathology (DENT 2204)
Research Methods (RSCH 2201)
Populations and Diversity (SOCI 2201)
Semester 5
Business Principles for Regulated Health Professionals (DENT 3100)
Advanced Clinic Practice (DENT 3101)
Dental Hygiene Theory and Evidenced Informed Practice (DENT 3102)
Dental Hygiene In Orthodontics (DENT 3103)
General Education Elective (GNED 0000)
Interprofessional Practice and Health Policy (HPOL 3100)
Semester 6
Clinical Case Presentations (DENT 3200)
Dental Hygiene Administration and Software (DENT 3201)
Consolidation Of Clinical Practice (DENT 3202)
Health Promotion and Community Experience (DENT 3203)
Professional Practice and Jurisprudence (DENT 3204)
General Education Elective (GNED 0000)
Courses, course descriptions and delivery formats are subject to change.
Course delivery
In person
Students will come to campus to complete in-person learning requirements. Detailed schedules, with course-specific delivery information, will be available after registration. Courses, course descriptions and delivery formats are subject to change.
In person:
Course is delivered in person, on campus within a classroom, lab, shop or studio.
Hybrid:
Part of the course is delivered online, remotely, and part is in-person on campus within a classroom, lab, shop or studio.
Online:
Fully remote course delivery.
Costs
Career Options
WHAT YOU COULD BE:
Dental hygienist
where you could work:
General dentistry practice
Independent dental hygiene practice
Institutional and hospital dental clinic
Public health unit
Specialty practice such as periodontics and orthodontics
Clinical Practice
Your learning experience will be complemented by a clinical practice component that provides students with the opportunity to demonstrate the knowledge, skills and attitudes necessary to be an effective care provider.
PRE-PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS
Please note: There are costs associated with Electronic Requirements Verification (ERV), immunizations, lab tests and certifications.  Be sure to keep all of your receipts for income tax purposes.  These costs include:
Service fees for
Verified
, our documentation collection and ERV verification partner.
Costs to complete mandatory immunizations, lab tests, and certifications.
It is required that students have completed the ERV with Verified to be eligible for the field placement component of this program. You must (at your expense) provide:
A clear and current Criminal Reference Check (CRC) with Vulnerable Sector Screening (VSS) (Semester 4 and 6 students only). If you cannot provide a clear CRC with VSS, you may not be accepted for placement by a field placement agency. CRCs with VSS must be obtained from your local police station. You may be required to obtain additional CRCs with VSS to meet field placement agency requirements
Current Level C CPR from a recognized provider
Current standard first aid certification from a recognized provider
Entry immunization form completed by a health-care provider
Confirmation of current N95 mask fit
test (Semester 4
to
6)
Links:
Clinic Requirements Information
Verified ERV User Guide
Program Transfer, Degree Completion and Additional Credentials
Durham College also offers degree completion opportunities with a number of Canadian and international institutions. Sample diploma-to-degree opportunities include:
Bachelor of Allied Health Sciences (Honours) - Ontario Tech University (Ontario Tech)
Bachelor of Commerce (Honours) bridge – Ontario Tech
Bachelor of Arts (Honours) – Educational Studies and Digital Technology – Ontario Tech
Honours Bachelor of Science (Dental Hygiene) -- George Brown College
Bachelor of Science - Athabasca University
Bachelor of Science Human Science - Athabasca University
Bachelor of Science (Health Services Administration) - Davenport University
Bachelor of General Studies - Thompson Rivers University
Bachelor of Health Sciences - Thompson Rivers University
Bachelor of Education - Technological Education - York University
Bachelor of Dental Science (Dental Hygiene) -- University of British Columbia
Please visit our
pathways
page to learn more about how you can transfer your credits towards a degree.
Looking for more pathway opportunities or to transfer to Durham College? Click
here
for more information.
Tech Requirements
To help students have the best remote learning experience possible, Durham College’s IT Services department has identified technology recommendations for each program based on course needs and software requirements. While not required, students may want to consider these suggestions if they are purchasing a computer or laptop for the upcoming academic year.
Processor
: i3
RAM
: 4GB
Storage
: 256GB SSD
Operating System:
Microsoft Windows 10 Professional or Education x64 SP1
Internet Browser
: Internet Explorer 11 or Google Chrome (newest version) or Firefox (newest version)
Network Adapter
: 802.11ac 2.4/5 GHz wireless adapter
Camera:
Webcam
/
built-in camera
Internet connection
Questions regarding technology recommendations can be directed to the
IT Service Desk
or the
school office
.
See Your Space
Ask a Current Student