https://durhamcollege.ca/programs/event-planning

Event Planning (Co-op option available)
Ministry-approved title: Special Events Planning
Credential
Ontario College Diploma
Location
Whitby
OCAS Code
EVPN
Next Intake
September 2025
View all intakes
Faculty
Faculty of Hospitality & Horticultural Science (HHS)
Length
Four semesters
Laptop
Learn more
about laptop requirements
Co-op
Learn more
about co-op options
Delivery
In person
Learn more
.

Overview
Apply Now
Domestic application
International application
Overview
Program Details
Admission Requirements
Courses
Costs
Career Options
CO-OP
Experiential Learning
Transfer
Tech Requirements
Book a tour
Ask a Current Student
Social Media
Connect with us
Apply Now
Domestic application
International application
Overview
Program Details
Admission Requirements
Courses
Costs
Career Options
CO-OP
Experiential Learning
Pathways
Tech Requirements
Your Next Steps
Book a tour
Ask a Current Student
Follow us on Social Media
Connect with us
Apply Now
Event Planning Program Overview
The Event Planning program is
an excellent choice for individuals who are naturally
organized
,
detail-oriented people
who enjoy taking charge of
projects
in fast-paced, dynamic settings. This event planning program is designed for those who
thrive in high-energy, creative environment
s,
and is perfect for the person who has always aspired to be an event planner or event coordinator.
In the Event Planning program,
s
tudents are prepared for a career that offers incredible versatility and
that
spans almost every industry.
Students in the event planner program
learn how to design, plan and execute a d
iverse range
of corporate, community and social events
. W
hile
developing a keen eye for detail and strong business acumen, students learn to keep sight of the broader creative concept, schedule and budget.  Upon graduation with an event planning certificate, a student can expect to enter the field as an event planner  event coordinator, with all the skills necessary to plan and execute spectacular, meaningful, and inspiring events.
The event planner program emphasizes
experiential learning,
allowing students to apply their skills in real-world scenarios at our state-of-the-art
W. Galen Weston Centre for Food (Weston Centre) event space.
This
combination of classroom instruction and practical application
ensures that graduates are well-equipped to meet the demands of the ever-evolving event planning industry.
Ask a
current Student
Intakes and Availability
Date
Domestic
Availability
International
Availability
September 2025
Open
Open
Apply now
Program
Highlights
Success Stories
Resources
Success Stories
Resources
Lead the way
2025 Program Guide
Read Now
Other Resources
Attend a Program Information Webinar
Financial Aid Information
Admission Requirements
To enter the Event Planning program, you will need:
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD) or
Mature Student Status
AND
Grade 12 English (C or U)
Are you missing admission requirements? We are here to help.
Durham College (DC) offers pre-admission assessment testing to mature domestic applicants to meet admission requirements in English and/or math. Domestic applicants that are 19 years of age or older as of the start date of their program, and who do not have the required program credit(s) i.e., Grade 12 English and/or Grade 12 math are eligible to take an admissions assessment test.
Learn more about how to book Pre-Admission Assessment Testing
here
.
DC also offers Academic upgrading courses are
FREE
and designed to help you meet the admissions requirements for this program. Available to individuals 18+, these courses are offered on-campus at DC. Boost your qualifications with:
Grade 12 Math (MAP4C equivalent)
Grade 12 English (ENG4C equivalent)
Grade 11 Biology (SBI3C equivalent)
Grade 12 Chemistry (SCH4C equivalent)
Learn more about
Academic Upgrading
and connect with our team to get started.
Tuition
Year one domestic: $2,722 (CAD)
Year one international: $14,884 (CAD)
View full costs
Semester 1 Courses
In your first semester of the Event Planning program, students are introduced to the core concepts and industry practices that will guide them through the rest of the event planning courses.
Students learn how to communicate effectively and clearly in business settings, master the use of computer programs for event planning and applications for the hospitality industry, and emerge with a strong customer-focused orientation. In these preliminary event coordinator courses, students are introduced to the events industry and the event planning cycle, and develop leadership and teamwork skills.
Communications for Business 1 (COMM 2204)
Computers for Hospitality (COMP 1210)
Customer Service (CSRV 2200)
Introduction to Events Industry (EVNT 1200)
Event Planning Cycle (FEST 1200)
General Education Elective (GNED 0000)
Managing Teams and Leadership (HOSM 3200)
View all courses
Co-operative Education (co-op)
The best way to succeed in
event planning
is to immerse yourself in it! Co-op is an excellent way to build your professional network, explore career paths and apply in-class teachings to real work situations
as an event planner, under the supervision of an experienced professional
. Co-op is a model of education that integrates academic learning with workplace learning in fields relevant to our students’ academic and personal goals.
Students in the Event Planning program
can
apply to the co-op option during their first academic semester. Entrance to the co-op option is limited and the processes for securing a work term are competitive
, therefore students are asked to prepare early and diligently.
View more
Career Options
WHAT YOU COULD BE:
Conference services coordinator
Event/festival coordinator
Event manager
Public relations/marketing coordinator
Third-party event planner
Wedding planner
View all career options
Connect
with us
I AM A CANADIAN APPLICANT
Contact recruitment
Live Chat
905.721.3126
Fill out the form to get more information on your program of interest, upcoming events, and how to become a Durham College student. By submitting your information below, you consent to Durham College contacting you via email and/or SMS with a minimum of 4 messages per month. You may withdraw consent at any time.
Durham College Programs
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Are you currently in high school?
Yes
No
Are you an International or Domestic subscriber
Please select...
Canadian Citizen
Permanent Resident
International
Postal or City
City
Postal
Postal Code
City/Town
Contact Preference
Email
Mobile Number (Standard message rates apply)
Both
Durham
College values the opportunity to provide you with information. Please provide
your mobile number below to allow us to continue to contact you SMS with a
minimum of 4 messages per month
Mobile
Answer here:
SPAMBOTS
reCAPTCHA helps prevent automated form spam.
The submit button will be disabled until you complete the CAPTCHA.
I HAVE ALREADY APPLIED
Email admissions
Live Chat
905.721.3000
I AM AN INTERNATIONAL APPLICANT
Contact
Live Chat
905.721.2000 ext. 7697
I HAVE ALREADY APPLIED
Please
contact the international office
.
Event Planner Program Details
The
two-year
Event Planning
program
provides the aspiring event coordinator with a comprehensive understanding of
the business of events.
S
tudents develop and apply essential skills in leadership, financial management, decision-making, critical thinking
,
and strategic planning.
T
hroughout our event planner program, students learn
about the various industry segments, including corporate, social, not-for-profit, incentive, community & cultural, wedding, festival, music and sport.
During their event planner training, s
tudents focus on events designed to support the economic growth, quality of life and richness of rural and urban communities; learn how to plan and execute large and small events; and gain valuable hands-on experience in event management practices through courses and experiential learning in the areas of:
Programming, production and site logistics
relevant to event planning
Design, planning and execution
in the event coordinator role
Event technology and sustainability
Fundraising and sponsorship
Catering and banquet services
Marketing, social media and digital design tools
for event planners
Leading
event planning
teams and volunteers
Financial, human and risk management
A
s a critical part of their learning, students participate
in
several experiential events, including a capstone event.
This experiential component
provides
opportunities for students to apply the skills acquired
in their event planning courses
. In addition to
earning a
diploma,
students
also obtain several
valuable
certifications
they can add to their resumes, which enhances their qualifications as event planners coordinators.
The Event Planning program is offered at the Whitby campus, home of the college's W. Galen Weston Centre for Food (WC). This i
mpressive
learning space provides access to state-of-the-art labs, classrooms and event spaces.
Program Learning Outcomes
Upon completing the Event Planning program and obtaining an event planning certificate, you can expect to understand and be able to do the following:
Plan and design events to meet organizational and client objectives.
Select food and beverage catering services, site location, and décor, according to the theme and needs of an event.
Develop marketing plans and related promotional plans for events that will meet the needs of the organization and/or client.
Coordinate and/or supervise staff, contractors and volunteers in order to achieve the desired performance.
Employ best practices for financial management in the planning of events.
Manage the business transactions of event projects to meet organization and/or client needs.
Develop strategies to mitigate risk and liability to ensure the safety and security of participants during an event.
Maintain ethical practices and professionalism in the events field to create positive relationships and experiences.
Apply strategies that support intercultural awareness and inclusion in event offerings that meet the needs of diverse populations.
Use industry standard technology platforms, systems, tools and applications to support the operations of events.
Secure monies through sponsorships, funds, or grants to support event objectives.
Engage in ongoing learning for professional and career growth.
Identify and respond to new career opportunities that may include contract work and entrepreneurship, to secure employment.
Communicate information persuasively and accurately in written, verbal and interactive formats.
Event Planning Program Admission Requirements
To enter the Event Planning program, you will need:
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD) or
Mature Student Status
AND
Grade 12 English (C or U)
Are you missing admission requirements? We are here to help.
Durham College (DC) offers pre-admission assessment testing to mature domestic applicants to meet admission requirements in English and/or math. Domestic applicants that are 19 years of age or older as of the start date of their program, and who do not have the required program credit(s) i.e., Grade 12 English and/or Grade 12 math are eligible to take an admissions assessment test.
Learn more about how to book Pre-Admission Assessment Testing
here
.
DC also offers Academic upgrading courses are
FREE
and designed to help you meet the admissions requirements for this program. Available to individuals 18+, these courses are offered on-campus at DC. Boost your qualifications with:
Grade 12 Math (MAP4C equivalent)
Grade 12 English (ENG4C equivalent)
Grade 11 Biology (SBI3C equivalent)
Grade 12 Chemistry (SCH4C equivalent)
Learn more about
Academic Upgrading
and connect with our team to get started.
Courses in the Event Planning Program
The courses listed below are for incoming students. If you are a current student, please refer to your program of study for the year you began your program. Your program of study can be found on
MyDC
.
Semester 1
Communications for Business 1 (COMM 2204)
Computers for Hospitality (COMP 1210)
Customer Service (CSRV 2200)
Introduction to Events Industry (EVNT 1200)
Event Planning Cycle (FEST 1200)
General Education Elective (GNED 0000)
Managing Teams and Leadership (HOSM 3200)
Semester 2
Accounting for Hospitality (ACCT 1208)
Career Planning (CAPL 4200)
Event Program and Production Development (EVNT 2301)
Event Site and Logistics Planning (EVNT 4201)
General Education Elective (GNED 0000)
Human Resource Management for Hospitality (HRM 4205)
Marketing and Social Media (MKTG 4213)
Semester 3
Catering and Banquet Services (CEP 3203)
Capstone Event Planning (EVNT 3200)
Finance for Special Events (FINS 4200)
Field Placement Workshop (FWKW 4200)
Digital Marketing Design (MKTG 1312)
Sales and Sponsorship (SALE 3202)
Semester 4
Capstone Event (CAPR 4200)
Field Placement - SEVP (FWKW 4201)
Sustainable Business Practices for Events (GRFE 2200)
Indigenous Elective (INDG 0000)
The Business Of Non-Profits (MGMT 2218)
Risk and Security Management (RISE 3200)
Courses, course descriptions and delivery formats are subject to change.
Course delivery
In person
Students will come to campus to complete in-person learning requirements. Detailed schedules, with course-specific delivery information, will be available after registration. Courses, course descriptions and delivery formats are subject to change.
In person:
Course is delivered in person, on campus within a classroom, lab, shop or studio.
Hybrid:
Part of the course is delivered online, remotely, and part is in-person on campus within a classroom, lab, shop or studio.
Online:
Fully remote course delivery.
Costs for the Event Planning Program
This program contains a co-op option.
Click here
for information on program costs for co-op students.
Career Options for Event Planning Program Graduates
Are you ready to embark on a career working with people and organizations across the province, country or world
as an event planner or event coordinator
? The event
s
industry offers employment opportunities in industries
in every part of
the world
.
Career paths
for the skilled event planner
might include producing virtual or in-person events such as corporate retreats, non-profit fundraisers, conferences, incentive travel and wedding planning to name just a few. Durham College is THE place to start your journey into exciting and diverse sector
of event planning
.
To start, you are encouraged to do a little homework on the industry. Check out the video below created by Meetings Mean Business Canada, and
the linked
article by the Event Industry Council (EIC), which demonstrate the importance and impact of the event industry to Canada’s Gross Domestic Product. It is significant, and that means jobs
Meetings Mean Business Canada
Events Industry Council Global Significance of Business Events
You might be wondering about the types of roles and organizations that offer employment opportunities for event planning professionals.
When you graduate from the event planning program, you will be equipped to take on a variety of roles in diverse settings. The skills you will gain in the event planning program will allow you to think broadly about their application.
While this list is
extensive,
it is by no means exhaustive.
Job titles:
Conference services coordinator
Event/festival coordinator
Event manager
Public relations/marketing coordinator
Third-party event planner
Wedding planner
Corporate events planner
Special events coordinator
Event marketing manager
Trade show coordinator
Exhibition coordinator
Event operations manager
Meeting planner
Fundraising event coordinator
Event logistics specialist
Brand activation manager
Event production manager
Hospitality coordinator
Sponsorship coordinator
Employed by:
Non-profit, charity and fundraising organizations
Conference centres, sports arenas or golf courses
Corporate or private organizations
Cruise ships or resorts
Government or educational institutions
Entrepreneurs or small businesses
Hotels, or special event venues
Long-term care facility
Professional associations
Event production companies
Tourism boards and destination marketing organizations
Arts and cultural organizations
Convention and visitor bureaus
Exhibition and trade show organizers
Music and entertainment companies
Film and television production companies
Sports teams and leagues (for sporting events and fan engagement activities)
Catering and banquet service providers
Event Planning Program Affiliations and Associations
The event
planning
industry has informative magazines dedicated to professional development, education and industry news.
See the links below:
IGNITE Magazine
CONVENE
SMART MEETINGS
Durham College faculty and staff are proud to be members of the following professional
event planning
associations:
Canadian Society of Professional Event Planners
Festivals & Events Ontario
Meetings Mean Business
MPI
PCMA
PCMA Student Chapter
The DC PCMA Student Chapter brings together students from Event Planning, Hospitality and Tourism Marketing programs. Through the chapter,
our
event planning students
gain invaluable experience working as the Executive Board, connecting and collaborating with other students from across the country and the US!
Join us at Durham College, in the School of Hospitality and Horticultural Sciences – your future
as an event planner or event coordinator
awaits!
Experiential Learning
Field Placement
For students completing a field placement, their
event coordinator courses
will be complemented by a 120-hour field placement opportunity in the fourth semester. Students work
in
professional tourism, hospitality or event planning environments, applying skills
from
their event planning courses
to the
workplace.
On-campus activities
Beyond the special events you will plan and execute as part of your studies, students
in the Event Planning program
have
countless opportunities
to further their learning, via student-focused special events,
to
employment in the W. Galen Weston Centre for Food’s restaurant and Bistro ’67, and a range of community projects.
Program Transfer, Degree Completion and Additional Credentials
If you would like to continue your education after completing your event planner training, you
may be eligible to apply
your
academic credits towards further study through Durham College partner
ships with
Canadian and international colleges and universities. These include:
Bachelor of Commerce (Honours) – Ontario Tech University
Bachelor of Business Administration – General Business - Davenport University
Bachelor of Business Administration (Marketing) – Davenport University
Bachelor of Arts in Global Tourism Management – Royal Roads
Bachelor of Arts – Technological University of the Shannon
Bachelor of Arts in Event Management (Honours) – Technological University of the Shannon
Bachelor of Hospitality Management - Vancouver Island University
Looking for more pathway opportunities or to transfer to Durham College? Click
here
for more information.
Tech Requirements for the Event Planning Program
To help students have the best learning experience possible, Durham College’s IT Services department has identified technology recommendations for
event planning courses
While not required, students may want to consider these suggestions if they are purchasing a computer or laptop for the upcoming academic year.
Processor
: i3
RAM
: 4GB
Storage
: 256GB SSD
Operating System:
Microsoft Windows 10 Professional or Education x64 SP1
Internet Browser
: Internet Explorer 11 or Google Chrome (newest version) or Firefox (newest version)
Network Adapter
: 802.11ac 2.4/5 GHz wireless adapter
Camera:
Webcam
/
built-in camera
Internet connection
Questions regarding technology recommendations can be directed to the
IT Service Desk
or the
school office
.
Follow us on Social Media
Co-operative education (co-op)
The best way to succeed in your field is to immerse yourself in it! Co-op is an excellent way to build your professional network, explore career paths and apply in-class teachings to real work situations. Co-op is a model of education that integrates academic learning with workplace learning in fields relevant to our students’ academic and personal goals.
Students in the Event Planning Diploma program will be invited to apply to the co-op
option
during their first academic semester. Entrance to the co-op
option
is limited and the processes for securing a work term are competitive.
Students enrolled in the co-op option are required to complete a four-month, paid work term between the second and third semesters of their program.
Supports are
available through the Experiential Learning office to
assist
students with securing their work terms. In addition, the Experiential Learning office is in contact with co-op students and their employers during the work terms to help with any questions. Upon completing the work term, co-op students return to campus to complete their final two academic semesters of the program before graduating.
Program Sequence
September intake:
Fall
(September to December)
Winter
(January to April)
Summer
(May to August)
Year 1
Academic semester 1
Academic semester 2
Co-op work term
Year 2
Academic semester 3
Academic semester 4
Courses
CO-OP Option
Semester 1
Communications for Business 1 (COMM 2204)
Computers for Hospitality (COMP 1210)
Customer Service (CSRV 2200)
Introduction to Events Industry (EVNT 1200)
Event Planning Cycle (FEST 1200)
General Education Elective (GNED 0000)
Managing Teams and Leadership (HOSM 3200)
Semester 2
Accounting for Hospitality (ACCT 1208)
Co-op and Career Preparation (COOP 1000)
Event Program and Production Development (EVNT 2301)
Event Site and Logistics Planning (EVNT 4201)
General Education Elective (GNED 0000)
Human Resource Management for Hospitality (HRM 4205)
Marketing and Social Media (MKTG 4213)
Co-op Work Term
Co-op Work Term 1 (EVPC 1000)
Semester 3
Catering and Banquet Services (CEP 3203)
Capstone Event Planning (EVNT 3200)
Finance for Special Events (FINS 4200)
Digital Marketing Design (MKTG 1312)
Sales and Sponsorship (SALE 3202)
Semester 4
Capstone Event (CAPR 4200)
Sustainable Business Practices for Events (GRFE 2200)
Indigenous Elective (INDG 0000)
The Business Of Non-Profits (MGMT 2218)
Risk and Security Management (RISE 3200)
Courses and course descriptions are subject to change.
Co-op administrative fee
Once transferred to the co-op option of this program, students will have a co-op administrative fee of $475 assessed to their accounts during the academic semester(s) prior to scheduled work term(s). The administrative fee goes to support the broad array of support services provided to co-op students. These services are dedicated to support student success.
Learn more
Find more information about the benefits of becoming a
co-op student.
Find more information about the benefits of becoming a
co-op employer.
E:
co-op@durhamcollege.ca