https://durhamcollege.ca/programs/human-resources-management-canadian-context-graduate-certificate

Human Resources Management – Canadian Context (graduate certificate)
Ministry-approved title: Human Resources Management – Canadian Context
Credential
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Location
Oshawa
OCAS Code
HURX
Next Intake
May 2025
View all intakes
Faculty
Faculty of Business
Length
Four semesters
Laptop
Learn more
about laptop requirements
Delivery
In person
Learn more
.

Overview
Apply Now
Domestic application
International application
Overview
Program Details
Admission Requirements
Courses
Costs
Career Options
Transfer
Tech Requirements
Industry Partners
Work Term
Book a tour
Ask a Current Student
Connect with us
Apply Now
International application
Overview
Program Details
Admission Requirements
Courses
Costs
Career Options
Industry Partners
Pathways
Tech Requirements
Work Term
Your Next Steps
Book a tour
Ask a Current Student
Connect with us
Apply Now
Program Overview
Developed in response to the growing need for skilled graduates specialized in human resources, the Human Resources Management – Canadian Context graduate certificate program is specifically designed to prepare international students with the knowledge, skills and
expertise
required
to understand human resources practices in Canada and to work within the Canadian industry.
Ask a
current Student
Intakes and Availability
Date
Domestic
Availability
International
Availability
May 2025
Closed
Open
Apply now
Program
Highlights
Resources
Resources
Lead the way
2025 Program Guide
Read Now
Other Resources
Attend a Program Information Webinar
Financial Aid Information
Admission Requirements
Diploma or degree
Proof of English language proficiency required
OR
Minimum of three years of related industry experience detailed in a professional resumé with a letter of intent may be considered
Proof of English language proficiency required
Applicants who are internationally educated in a non‐English speaking country must meet Durham College’s
English Language Proficiency Policy
.
RECOMMENDED
Knowledge of Microsoft Excel
Please note: This program may be highly competitive and have a specific selection process and application deadline.
Tuition
Year one international: $14,748.00 (CAD)
View full costs
Semester 1 Courses
Communication for Business Professionals (COMM 1001)
Bus Comp Apps and Data Mgmt (COMP 1004)
Canadian Business and Commerce (COMR 1001)
Principles Of Ethics and Professionalism (ETHC 1001)
Canadian History, Culture and Politics (HIST 1001)
Canadian Laws and Regulations (LAWW 1001)
View all courses
Career Options
WHAT YOU COULD BE:
Compensation and benefits co-ordinator
Employee relations advisor
Human resources consultant
Human resources generalist
Occupational health and safety associate
Recruiter and staffing co-ordinator
View all career options
Connect
with us
Contact recruitment
Live Chat
905.721.3126
Fill out the form to get more information on your program of interest, upcoming events, and how to become a Durham College student. By submitting your information below, you consent to Durham College contacting you via email and/or SMS with a minimum of 4 messages per month. You may withdraw consent at any time.
Durham College Programs
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Are you currently in high school?
Yes
No
Are you an International or Domestic subscriber
Please select...
Canadian Citizen
Permanent Resident
International
Postal or City
City
Postal
Postal Code
City/Town
Contact Preference
Email
Mobile Number (Standard message rates apply)
Both
Durham
College values the opportunity to provide you with information. Please provide
your mobile number below to allow us to continue to contact you SMS with a
minimum of 4 messages per month
Mobile
Answer here:
SPAMBOTS
reCAPTCHA helps prevent automated form spam.
The submit button will be disabled until you complete the CAPTCHA.
I HAVE ALREADY APPLIED
Email admissions
Live Chat
905.721.3000
I AM AN INTERNATIONAL APPLICANT
Contact
Live Chat
905.721.2000 ext. 7697
I HAVE ALREADY APPLIED
Please
contact the international office
.
Program Details
Human Resources (HR) professionals serve as strategic partners in today’s business environment. They work closely with management colleagues throughout all levels of a company on a variety of project-based and employment-related initiatives. Many roles are performed by HR professionals, including:
Developing and implementing company policies and procedures
Delivering HR-related programs and services
Giving advice and counsel to corporate executives, line managers and employees
You will experience growth in your skills, knowledge and abilities in the following areas:
Compensation management
Employee and labour relations
HR planning
Managerial accounting
Occupational health and safety
Organizational behaviour
Performance management
Recruitment and selection
Training and development
Employment law
The Human Resources Management (HRM) graduate certificate program is designed for individuals with previous post-secondary education (a three-year college diploma or a university degree is required) or related work experience (at least three years of relevant work experience in a human resources-related role).
This program includes all nine courses required to meet the academic component of either the Certified Human Resources Professional Designation (CHRP) or the Certified Human Resources Leader (CHRL) designation. Students who receive an average grade of 70 per cent in these courses and maintain a minimum grade of 65 per cent in each course, meet the coursework requirements to write the Comprehensive Knowledge Exam 1 (CKE1) and Comprehensive Knowledge Exam 2 (CKE2) – a significant step towards
achieving the
CHRP or CHRL designation in Ontario.
For further information regarding designations granted by the Human Resources Professionals Association, please visit
www.hrpa.ca
.
PROGRAM LEARNING OUTCOMES
Contribute to the development, implementation, and evaluation of employee recruitment, selection, and retention plans and processes.
Administer and contribute to the design and evaluation of the performance management program.
Develop, implement, and evaluate employee orientation, training, and development programs.
Facilitate and support effective employee and labour relations in both non-union and union environments.
Research and support the development and communication of the organization’s totalcompensation plan.
Collaborate with others in the development, implementation, and evaluation of organizational health and safety policies and practices.
Research and analyze information needs and apply current and emerging information technologies to support the human resources function.
Develop, implement, and evaluate organizational development strategies aimed at promoting organizational effectiveness.
Present and evaluate communication messages and processes related to the human resources function of the organization.
Manage own professional development and provide leadership to others in the achievement of ongoing competence in human resources professional practice.
Facilitate and communicate the human resources component of the organization’s business plan.
Conduct research, produce reports, and recommend changes in human resources practices.
Reflect on the historical and current Canadian business landscape to support business decisions.
Apply industry skills, attitudes and knowledge in a variety of Canadian workplace settings to support client goals.
Admission Requirements
Diploma or degree
Proof of English language proficiency required
OR
Minimum of three years of related industry experience detailed in a professional resumé with a letter of intent may be considered
Proof of English language proficiency required
Applicants who are internationally educated in a non‐English speaking country must meet Durham College’s
English Language Proficiency Policy
.
RECOMMENDED
Knowledge of Microsoft Excel
Please note: This program may be highly competitive and have a specific selection process and application deadline.
Industry Partners
CERTIFICATIONS
Students
can
earn a certificate
in Mental Health First Aid.
ACCREDITATIONS AND ASSOCIATIONS
S
tudents entering their first year of studies in a Faculty of Business program will receive a membership to all of Durham Region’s Chambers of Commerce and Boards of Trade for the duration of their studies, plus an additional year following graduation. As one of the only colleges in Ontario with this offering, DC is proud to provide students with access to local businesses at a regional level.
The Chambers of Commerce and Boards of Trade include:
Ajax-Pickering Board of Trade
Brock Board of Trade
Clarington Board of Trade
Greater Oshawa Chamber of Commerce
Newcastle and District Chamber of Commerce
North Durham Chamber of Commerce
Whitby Chamber of Commerce
Membership benefits:
Opportunities to connect with over 2,500 local businesses and jumpstart your career by networking with potential future employers;
Access to professional development events across Durham Region to gain unique business insights and learn from industry leaders; and
Learning opportunities to develop the in-demand skills to launch a successful career.
Courses
The courses listed below are for incoming students. If you are a current student, please refer to your program of study for the year you began your program. Your program of study can be found on
MyDC
.
Semester 1
Communication for Business Professionals (COMM 1001)
Bus Comp Apps and Data Mgmt (COMP 1004)
Canadian Business and Commerce (COMR 1001)
Principles Of Ethics and Professionalism (ETHC 1001)
Canadian History, Culture and Politics (HIST 1001)
Canadian Laws and Regulations (LAWW 1001)
Semester 2
Foundations Of Managerial Accounting (ACCT 1212)
Principles Of Human Resource Management (HURM 1101)
Organizational Behaviour for HR Professionals (HURM 1102)
Recruitment and Selection (HURM 1103)
Conflict Resolution, Mediation and Mental Health (HURM 1104)
Employment Law (LAWW 1105)
Semester 3
Occupational Health and Safety (HLTH 1106)
Compensation Management (HURM 1203)
Training and Development (HURM 1204)
HR Planning (HURM 1205)
Professional Practice (HURM 1208)
Employee and Labour Relations (LAWW 1206)
SEMESTER 4 – MANDATORY WORK-TERM
Courses, course descriptions and delivery formats are subject to change.
Course delivery
In person
Students will come to campus to complete in-person learning requirements. Detailed schedules, with course-specific delivery information, will be available after registration. Courses, course descriptions and delivery formats are subject to change.
In person:
Course is delivered in person, on campus within a classroom, lab, shop or studio.
Hybrid:
Part of the course is delivered online, remotely, and part is in-person on campus within a classroom, lab, shop or studio.
Online:
Fully remote course delivery.
Costs
International students should plan for an annual (2 semester) fee of $14,748.00
YEAR ONE FEES
International
Tuition
$14,748.00
Compulsory Ancillary
$1,919.53
Program Incidental
$
250.00
Total Fees:
$16,917.53
Career Options
WHAT YOU COULD BE:
Compensation and benefits co-ordinator
Employee relations advisor
Human resources consultant
Human resources generalist
Occupational health and safety associate
Recruiter and staffing co-ordinator
WHERE YOU COULD WORK:
Energy companies
Employment agencies
Colleges and universities
Computer/tech companies
Not-for-profit organizations
Provincial and municipal government
Manufacturing
Program Transfer, Degree Completion and Additional Credentials
Please visit our
pathways
page to learn more about how you can transfer your credits towards a degree.
Looking for more pathway opportunities or to transfer to Durham College? Click
here
for more information.
Tech Requirements
NOTE: Students enrolling in this program are required to purchase their own laptop.
MINIMUM RECOMMENDED HARDWARE
Laptop: Personal computer (PC). A Mac is not recommended – see notes below*
Operating System: Windows 10 Professional (64-bit only) and later
Processor: Intel Core i5 or better
Memory: 4 GB of RAM (8 GB preferred)
Hard Drive: 250 GB or larger (Solid State Drive (SSD) preferred)
Warranty: 3 years parts and labour (On-site preferred)
2 USB ports
Webcam
Microphone (headset preferred)
*Mac Computers
Some required software applications are not available for Mac.
Students who choose a Mac may need to purchase additional software to complete assessments and class exercises at their own cost.
SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS
Windows 10 Professional (64-bit only)
Microsoft Office 2019 or 365 (Students will be provided access to Microsoft Office 365 through the College’s Microsoft Office account)
Internet Explorer
Mozilla Firefox
Adobe Flash Player and Browser Plug-in
Optional
AVG
Avira
Mandatory work term
Students gain work-integrated learning experience in a mandatory work term in the final semester of the program. Students must work in a full-time, paid position (at least 30 hours per week) for a minimum total of 420 hours throughout the four-month semester. Positions must be directly related to the student’s current Durham College program and approved by the college. To be eligible for the mandatory work term, students must maintain their academic eligibility in each of the three prior academic semesters.
While the work term is mandatory, employment is not guaranteed and students are expected to conduct a thorough and active job search, both independently and with the supports provided by the Experiential Learning Hub and their co-operative education coordinator.
Work term documentation must be signed by the student, their employer, and the college to authorize the position as students are expected to be participating in productive work rather than merely observing. Progress on the job will be monitored throughout the term by the college.
Program sequence
May INTAKE:
Summer
(May to August)
Fall
(September to December)
Winter
(January to April)
Summer
(May to August)
Academic semester 1
Academic semester 2
Academic semester 3
Mandatory work term
Academic eligibility
Students must maintain all academic requirements to be eligible to participate in the work terms. This includes GPA and course completion requirements:
Academic semester 1
Academic semester 2
Academic semester 3
Academic semester 4
Course completion
All semester 1 courses completed by end of the semester
All semester 2 courses completed by end of the semester
All semester 3 courses completed by end of the semester
Mandatory work term successfully completed
Semester GPA
Minimum semester GPA of 3.0/5.0 (equivalent to 70%) must be achieved
Minimum semester GPA of 3.0/5.0 (equivalent to 70%) must be achieved
Minimum semester GPA of 3.0/5.0 (equivalent to 70%) must be achieved
PASS must be earned during work term
Additional notes
Students who do not achieve this standard at the conclusion of each semester will not be allowed to continue in the mandatory work term program and will be referred to their student advisor to explore their academic options.
Mandatory work term: students must secure a work term position that is full-time, directly related to their current program, and approved by the college as a suitable work term, by the published start date. Students who do not secure an appropriate position by the published start date or who do not complete all required student and employer documentation will be ineligible for graduation from this program design. There is no alternative option to the mandatory work term available.
Administrative fee
In addition to tuition, ancillary and incidental fees, students in this program will have an administrative fee of $475 assessed to their accounts during the academic semester prior to the scheduled work term. The administrative fee goes to support the broad array of support services provided to mandatory work term students. These services are dedicated to support student success.
Working in Canada
In order to work in Canada for the mandatory work term, you must apply for and receive a Social Insurance Number (SIN). To be eligible for a SIN, you must have a study permit with a condition permitting employment.
A co-op work permit is also required. If you asked for a co-op work permit when you applied for a study permit, you should have received it together with your study permit at a Canadian border. You are required to have a co-op work permit before you start your work term. If you did not receive your co-op work permit but you need one, you must apply for it as soon as you arrive in Canada; the International Education office can provide support with this application.
Learn more
Find more information about the benefits of becoming a
co-op student.
Find more information about the benefits of becoming a
co-op employer.
E:
co-op@durhamcollege.ca