https://durhamcollege.ca/programs/journalism-and-creative-writing

Journalism and Creative Writing
Ministry-approved title: Journalism
Credential
Ontario College Diploma and Bachelor of Arts Degree
Location
Durham College, Oshawa campus Trent University Durham GTA
OCAS Code
JCW
Next Intake
September 2025
View all intakes
Faculty
Faculty of Media, Art & Design (MAD)
Length
Eight semesters plus field placement
Laptop
Learn more
about laptop requirements
Delivery
In person
Learn more
.

Overview
Apply Now
Domestic application
International application
Overview
Program Details
Admission Requirements
Career Options
Experiential Learning
Transfer
Tech Requirements
Faculty Experts
Book a tour
Ask a Current Student
Social Media
Connect with us
Apply Now
Domestic application
International application
Overview
Program Details
Admission Requirements
Career Options
Experiential Learning
Pathways
Tech Requirements
Meet Your Faculty Experts
Your Next Steps
Book a tour
Ask a Current Student
Follow us on Social Media
Connect with us
Apply Now
Program Overview
Durham College (DC) and Trent University Durham GTA (Trent) have teamed up to create an integrated diploma and degree program — blending practical media production experience with crucial critical thinking and writing skills. With an emphasis on hands-on learning, gain new confidence while building a strong portfolio of work that will help launch your career in journalism, broadcasting and media. Achieve an Ontario College Diploma in Journalism – Mass Media and a Bachelor of Arts degree in Media Studies upon graduation in just four years.
In this program, enjoy courses at both DC and Trent’s Durham GTA campus each year (locations are only 15 minutes apart by car, 25 minutes by transit). Throughout your studies, you will refine your skills in writing, social media and content creation, putting your abilities into practice through a variety of hands-on learning and work placements. You will also develop the practical skills and experience necessary to launch an exciting career in broadcasting and journalism.
Ask a
current Student
Intakes and Availability
Date
Domestic
Availability
International
Availability
September 2025
Open
Apply now
Program
Highlights
Success Stories
Resources
Success Stories
Resources
Lead the way
2025 Program Guide
Read Now
Other Resources
Attend a Program Information Webinar
Financial Aid Information
Admission Requirements
Applications for this program are made through the Ontario Universities’ Application Centre. For complete information on the admission requirements and application process, please visit
www.trentu.ca/futurestudents/degree/journalism-and-creative-writing
.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD) or
mature student status
A minimum of six Grade 12 4U or 4M courses, including program-specific prerequisites
A minimum overall final average of 70 per cent (unless otherwise specified)
ENG 4U with a minimum of 60 per cent
Year one domestic: $2,722 (CAD)
Year one international: $14,884 (CAD)
SAMPLE COURSES
Broadcast Production
Online and Print Production
Impactful Storytelling with Indigenous Communities Photo and Video
Critical and Opinion Writing
Podcasting
Media, Law and Ethics
Multi-Platform Storytelling
Career Options
WHAT YOU COULD BE
Journalist
Content creator
Editor
Social media manager
Author
Producer
Podcaster
Media relations specialist
Communications officer
View all career options
Connect
with us
I AM A CANADIAN APPLICANT
Contact recruitment
Live Chat
905.721.3126
Fill out the form to get more information on your program of interest, upcoming events, and how to become a Durham College student. By submitting your information below, you consent to Durham College contacting you via email and/or SMS with a minimum of 4 messages per month. You may withdraw consent at any time.
Durham College Programs
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Are you currently in high school?
Yes
No
Are you an International or Domestic subscriber
Please select...
Canadian Citizen
Permanent Resident
International
Postal or City
City
Postal
Postal Code
City/Town
Contact Preference
Email
Mobile Number (Standard message rates apply)
Both
Durham
College values the opportunity to provide you with information. Please provide
your mobile number below to allow us to continue to contact you SMS with a
minimum of 4 messages per month
Mobile
Answer here:
SPAMBOTS
reCAPTCHA helps prevent automated form spam.
The submit button will be disabled until you complete the CAPTCHA.
I HAVE ALREADY APPLIED
Email admissions
Live Chat
905.721.3000
I AM AN INTERNATIONAL APPLICANT
Contact
Live Chat
905.721.2000 ext. 7697
I HAVE ALREADY APPLIED
Please
contact the international office
.
Program Details
Media is a constantly evolving and competitive industry that demands professionals who have both practical experience in media production as well as highly developed critical thinking and writing skills. Experience the best of both worlds as a student in the Journalism and Creative Writing program. Achieve an Ontario College Diploma in Journalism – Mass Media and a Bachelor of Arts degree in Media Studies (with an option in Creative Writing) upon graduation in just four years.
Due to the constant evolution of technology and the increasing development of new platforms of communication, traditional media professions such as journalism are facing new opportunities, as well as new challenges. Changes in the delivery methods of traditional news have forced journalists and others within the journalism industry to change how they do their jobs. For instance, journalists can now research using generative artificial intelligence (AI) and collect information on their phones to deliver stories directly to multiple platforms
and use generative artificial intelligence (AI) to create data visualizations or analyze documents
.
Graduates will develop skills in: broadcasting, writing, podcasting, reporting, interviewing, editing, using AI, content creation and media production, teamwork and critical thinking. You will have knowledge of applicable legislation, standards and professional ethics and recognize the importance of continuous learning. More specifically, you will gain a clear understanding of the impact of digital technology and generative AI on journalism and will be able to respond and adapt effectively and efficiently to technological changes.
This program embraces the broad changes occurring in the media landscape and offers a progressive curriculum that allows you to focus on development of skills in journalism, social media and content creation on all platforms – online, social media and broadcast.
Develop the essential skills, knowledge and behaviours required to work in this progressive, critical profession.
Important links:
Faculty of Media, Art & Design
The Chronicle
Instagram: @dcuoitchronicle
Facebook:
DCUOITChronicle
YouTube
Riot Radio
Durham College’s Rotary Global Classroom
For more information about the program and learning outcomes, please visit
www.trentu.ca/futurestudents/degree/journalism-and-creative-writing
.
Program Learning Outcomes
Report on stories in an accurate, detailed, balanced, professional, and timely manner.
Apply computer and technical skills to designated production and research functions in journalism.
Function both independently and as a member of editorial and/or production teams.
Analyze knowledge from communities, current events and public affairs, and history to interpret and express the context for designated journalism publications and/or productions.
Develop strategies for personal and professional development.
Comply with relevant Canadian legislation, standards, and the principles and practices of journalism.
Write and edit content for the designated media platforms.
Publish and/or broadcast content for the designated media platforms.
Apply production skills and use production equipment in the preparation and distribution of content for the designated media platforms.
Assess mass media communications and technologies as they relate to the impact on social and ethical issues.
Select and assess appropriate mass media technologies to meet the needs of the intended audience.
Plan and design editorial content to fulfil a mass media communications strategy for the client’s requirements.
Analyze shifts and trends in mass media technologies to anticipate the communication needs of the intended audience.
Admission Requirements
Applications for this program are made through the Ontario Universities’ Application Centre. For complete information on the admission requirements and application process, please visit
www.trentu.ca/futurestudents/degree/journalism-and-creative-writing
.
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD) or
mature student status
A minimum of six Grade 12 4U or 4M courses, including program-specific prerequisites
A minimum overall final average of 70 per cent (unless otherwise specified)
ENG 4U with a minimum of 60 per cent
Courses
The courses listed below are for incoming students. If you are a current student, please refer to your program of study for the year you began your program. Your program of study can be found on
MyDC
.
Courses, course descriptions and delivery formats are subject to change.
Course delivery
In person
Students will come to campus to complete in-person learning requirements. Detailed schedules, with course-specific delivery information, will be available after registration. Courses, course descriptions and delivery formats are subject to change.
In person:
Course is delivered in person, on campus within a classroom, lab, shop or studio.
Hybrid:
Part of the course is delivered online, remotely, and part is in-person on campus within a classroom, lab, shop or studio.
Online:
Fully remote course delivery.
Career Options
WHAT YOU COULD BE
Journalist
Content creator
Editor
Social media manager
Author
Producer
Podcaster
Media relations specialist
Communications officer
WHERE YOU COULD WORK
Communications departments
Magazines
News organizations
Online media companies
Marketing and publishing companies
Public relations firms
TV and radio stations
Self-employed (podcaster, blogger, content creator)
Experiential Learning
Field placement
Your learning experience is complemented by a six-week field placement at the end of the eighth semester. Gain valuable, hands-on experience in a professional workplace setting while applying the theoretical knowledge and skills learned in the classroom.
Past placement opportunities have included:
The Globe and Mail
CTV Toronto/CP24
The Toronto Star
CBC
680 News
Global TV
94.9 The Rock/KX-96/CKDO
Sportsnet 590 The Fan
TSN
The Hockey News
Peterborough Examiner
Entertainment Tonight Canada
Discovery Channel
Durham College
Ontario Tech University
Metroland – Durham Region
Durham District School Board
City of Oshawa
Region of Durham
Central Lake Ontario Conservation Authority
Working newsroom:
You also have the opportunity to work in The Chronicle newsroom at DC during the fifth and sixth semesters of the program. Here you will draw on your foundational learning to edit video and audio, present on Riot Radio as a host and podcaster, create content for the Chronicle news properties, and stay active across social media platforms.
Program Transfer, Degree Completion and Additional Credentials
Graduates of the Durham College Journalism – Mass Media diploma program may be eligible to pursue the Journalism and Creative Writing integrated program. Credit transfers and pathways are discussed with students on a case-by-case basis.
Please visit our
pathways
page to learn more.
Looking for more pathway opportunities or to transfer to Durham College? Click
here
for more information.
Tech Requirements
NOTE: Students enrolling in this program are required to purchase their own laptop.
Laptop requirements
A Mac notebook computer is recommended. Please see the
hardware requirements document
for details.
Software requirements
Operating System (bundled with new notebook computer purchase)
Membership in Adobe Creative Cloud™ is included in your Student Fees and will be made available during your first week. There is no need to purchase a subscription.
Microsoft Office (Available for free for students from Microsoft through your DC Mail account. Please do not buy it.)
DO NOT PURCHASE THIS SOFTWARE PRIOR TO STARTING THE PROGRAM.
Creative Cloud brings together everything you need to create your greatest work. One simple membership gives you and your classmates to the very latest versions of all the Adobe professional creative desktop applications like Photoshop®, Illustrator®, Premiere Pro® and more — plus new features and upgrades as soon as they're available. And that's just the beginning. With Creative Cloud™, everything you need to create intuitively and collaboratively is included.
Free downloadable software (please download and install prior to the start of classes. Caution: To avoid malware, only download from the actual developer or using the links below):
Adobe Flash Player
Audacity
Mozilla Firefox web browser
Google Chrome web browser
Brackets
OTHER RECOMMENDED HARDWARE
External hard disk USB-3 or USB-C 1 TB or larger
Headphones (closed or semi open type, good quality, for example AKG K 240 Semi-Open Studio Headphones)
NOTE: These requirements were accurate at the time of posting and are subject to change. Please be aware that hardware and software versions are subject to change and will be updated as needed. Fo
r further information and FAQ
click here
.
Meet Your Faculty Experts
Brandon Carson
Faculty Member, Faculty of Media, Art & Design (MAD)
Brandon Carson is a website designer and developer with experience developing and teaching online, hybrid, and in-person courses. Brandon holds a diploma in Web Development, a B.A. in Adult Education and Digital Technology, an M.A. in Learning and Technology, and is completing a Doctorate of Education.
Teresa Goff
Faculty Member, Faculty of Media, Art & Design (MAD)
Teresa Goff is a published writer, award-winning radio broadcaster and college professor with extensive experience designing and implementing curriculum-based experiential learning related to diversity, equity and inclusion. Her classes focus on dialogue, debate and creative development.  Research interests include Indigenization, social innovation, social justice, knowledge mobilization and urban issues.
Danielle Harder
Faculty Member, Faculty of Media, Art & Design (MAD)
Prior to joining Durham College, Danielle Harder was a reporter and producer CBC Radio and Television and wrote for national and local magazines and newspapers. She holds a B.A. in Journalism and an M.A. in Communications and Technology. She is on secondment to the International Education office until September 2026.
Brian Legree
Faculty Member, Faculty of Media, Art & Design (MAD)
A proud member of Durham College’s journalism faculty team since 2003, Brian Legree worked as a newspaper reporter, columnist and editor and radio newscaster for two decades prior to entering the classroom. Brian graduated from both Western University and Fanshawe College and won the 2021 Chair Academy Exemplary Leadership Award
Sam Riches
Faculty Member, Faculty of Media, Art & Design (MAD)
Sam Riches is an award-winning journalist who has worked across the country. He started his career in Yukon, reporting throughout the territory and into Alaska. He returned to Ontario, where he established himself as a freelancer, contributing to publications such as The New Yorker, The Atlantic and WIRED, among others.
Kenyon Wallace
Faculty Member, Faculty of Media, Art & Design (MAD)
Kenyon Wallace is an investigative reporter with the Toronto Star. He has reported on numerous public interest issues, including secret mistakes made by health care providers and unscrupulous driving schools. He has a Bachelor of Commerce from UBC, and an M.A. in Journalism from Carleton University.
Follow us on Social Media