https://durhamcollege.ca/programs/journalism-mass-media

Journalism – Mass Media
Ministry-approved title: Journalism
Credential
Ontario College Diploma
Location
Oshawa
OCAS Code
JOMM
Next Intake
September 2025
View all intakes
Faculty
Faculty of Media, Art & Design (MAD)
Length
Four semesters
Laptop
Learn more
about laptop requirements
Delivery
In person
Learn more
.

Overview
Apply Now
Domestic application
International application
Overview
Program Details
Admission Requirements
Courses
Costs
Career Options
Transfer
Tech Requirements
Faculty Experts
Experiential Learning
Book a tour
Ask a Current Student
Social Media
Connect with us
Apply Now
Domestic application
International application
Overview
Program Details
Admission Requirements
Courses
Costs
Career Options
Pathways
Tech Requirements
Meet Your Faculty Experts
Experiential Learning
Your Next Steps
Book a tour
Ask a Current Student
Follow us on Social Media
Connect with us
Apply Now
Journalism – Mass Media Program Overview
You may have arrived at this page wondering how to become a reporter.
But a
n
education in journalism
is not just about reporting the news and producing news articles; it’s about sharpening your
critical thinking
skills
,
mastering the art of news
writing, and
learning how to
presenting ideas
clearly and effectively for mass media and other media formats. Durham College’s Journalism – Mass Media program prepares
students for one of the most interesting careers imaginable!
Throughout the journalism program, students gain the
transferable knowledge, skills and experience to
succeed at all levels of the field and in adjacent areas of broadcasting.  Immersing themselves in the worlds of
journalism a
nd mass media, students gain a deep understanding of how stories are crafted and shared across various platforms. They
go on to write and deliver stories on
a variety of
written and broadcast platforms.
One of the things that sets Durham College’s Journalism – Mass Media program apart is the hands-on experience students gain in both local and mass media. This includes:
Delivering stories through the
on-campus station, Riot Radio.
D
eveloping social media skills,
critical in today’s journalism and mass media environments.
Undertaking experiential learning through the program’s ‘working newsroom.’
A
six-week field placement, w
here they have the opportunity to
applying their skills in a professional environment.
Ask a
current Student
Intakes and Availability
Date
Domestic
Availability
International
Availability
September 2025
Open
Open
Apply now
Program
Highlights
Success Stories
Resources
Success Stories
Resources
Lead the way
2025 Program Guide
Read Now
Other Resources
Attend a Program Information Webinar
Financial Aid Information
Admission Requirements
To apply for the Journalism - Mass Media program at Durham College you will need:
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD) or
Mature Student Status
AND
Grade 12 English (C or U) (minimum 60 per cent)
Recommended
Excellent written and oral communication skills
Are you missing admission requirements? We are here to help.
Durham College (DC) offers pre-admission assessment testing to mature domestic applicants to meet admission requirements in English and/or math. Domestic applicants that are 19 years of age or older as of the start date of their program, and who do not have the required program credit(s) i.e., Grade 12 English and/or Grade 12 math are eligible to take an admissions assessment test.
Learn more about how to book Pre-Admission Assessment Testing
here
.
DC also offers Academic upgrading courses are
FREE
and designed to help you meet the admissions requirements for this program. Available to individuals 18+, these courses are offered on-campus at DC. Boost your qualifications with:
Grade 12 Math (MAP4C equivalent)
Grade 12 English (ENG4C equivalent)
Grade 11 Biology (SBI3C equivalent)
Grade 12 Chemistry (SCH4C equivalent)
Learn more about
Academic Upgrading
and connect with our team to get started.
Tuition
Year one domestic: $2,722 (CAD)
Year one international: $14,884 (CAD)
View full costs
Semester 1 Courses
In the first semester of your
journalism studies, you will receive a broad overview of key aspects of broadcast journalism.
Expect to
be exposed to a range of information that you will be able to apply to the practical portions of the program. Here is a quick look at your first semester journalism and mass media courses.
Communication Foundations (COMM 1100)
General Education Elective (GNED 0000)
Reporting 1 (JOUR 1100)
Interviewing and Research (JOUR 1101)
Mass Media Fundamentals (MDIA 1102)
Broadcast Production 1 (MDIA 1103)
Photo and Video 1 (MDIA 1104)
View all courses
Career Options
Upon successful completion of the
journalism program
, you
could find yourself working in one of many different roles and a variety of contexts. The transferability of the knowledge and skills you will gain in your journalism studies will open options for you. When you are looking for a job, we encourage you to think beyond traditional journalism and mass media.
WHAT YOU COULD BE:
Broadcast journalist (radio, television)
Communications specialist
Content creator
Editorial designer
Editor or editorial assistant
Freelance
r
journalist or writer
Staff j
ournalist (online, magazine, newspaper)
Photographer
or photojournalist
Podcaster
Producer
Reporter
Social media manager
Investigative journalist
News anchor
Digital content strategist
Copywriter
Public relations officer
Video editor
Scriptwriter
Web content manager
Columnist
Media analyst
Online community manager
View all career options
Connect
with us
I AM A CANADIAN APPLICANT
Contact recruitment
Live Chat
905.721.3126
Fill out the form to get more information on your program of interest, upcoming events, and how to become a Durham College student. By submitting your information below, you consent to Durham College contacting you via email and/or SMS with a minimum of 4 messages per month. You may withdraw consent at any time.
Durham College Programs
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Are you currently in high school?
Yes
No
Are you an International or Domestic subscriber
Please select...
Canadian Citizen
Permanent Resident
International
Postal or City
City
Postal
Postal Code
City/Town
Contact Preference
Email
Mobile Number (Standard message rates apply)
Both
Durham
College values the opportunity to provide you with information. Please provide
your mobile number below to allow us to continue to contact you SMS with a
minimum of 4 messages per month
Mobile
Answer here:
SPAMBOTS
reCAPTCHA helps prevent automated form spam.
The submit button will be disabled until you complete the CAPTCHA.
I HAVE ALREADY APPLIED
Email admissions
Live Chat
905.721.3000
I AM AN INTERNATIONAL APPLICANT
Contact
Live Chat
905.721.2000 ext. 7697
I HAVE ALREADY APPLIED
Please
contact the international office
.
Journalism - Mass Media Program Details
Wondering how to start being a journalist? You've asked the right question and arrived at the right place.
This program embraces the broad changes occurring in the media landscape and offers a progressive curriculum that will allow you to focus on development of journalism, social media skills and content creation on all platforms – print, online, social media and broadcast, including podcasts.
Students in the Journalism – Mass Media program will develop the essential skills, knowledge, and behaviours required to work in this progressive, critical profession. In their first year, students are introduced to the core journalism skills and learn how society functions both locally and globally (see link to Rotary Global Classroom below). In their second year, students focus on creating content for all media platforms and undergoing experiential learning through our ‘working newsroom’ (see links to The Chronicle and Riot Radio below).
Due to the constant evolution of technology and the increasing development of new platforms of communication, traditional media professions such as journalism are
enjoying
new opportunities,
and facing
new challenges. Changes in the delivery methods of traditional news have forced journalists and others within the journalism
and mass media
industr
ies
to
adapt and innovate in
how they do their jobs. For instance, journalists can now collect information on their phones to deliver stories directly to multiple platforms.
Upon completion of the journalism program, you
will have developed skills in: broadcasting, writing, podcasting, reporting, interviewing, editing, content creation and media production, teamwork and critical thinking. You will
also
have knowledge of applicable legislation, standards and professional ethics,
as they apply to journalism and mass media.
The ever-changing nature of journalism and mass media today means that even experienced professionals need to constantly adapt and retrain. In Durham College’s journalism course work we place a great deal of emphasis on this need to stay up to date with advances in the field. Through your course work you will appreciate
the
critical
importance of continuous learning. More specifically, you will gain a clear understanding of the impact of digital technology and generative AI on journalism and will be able to respond and adapt effectively and efficiently to technological changes.
B
y the end of your time in the journalism
program, you will have opportunities at an entry-level in a wide variety of news organizations and as content creators for a variety of private companies and public organizations, such as school boards, hospitals and governments. Graduates will have the skills to perform a range of
journalism-related
tasks, including:
Writing local, national and international news through interviews and research
Writing news stories for publication and/or broadcast
Editing, analyzing and verifying information for accuracy
Researching and conducting interviews for broadcast, online and print
Applying production skills and using equipment to create
journalism
content for a range of platforms,
including broadcast and print
Using social media platforms to engage audiences
Planning and designing editorial content to meet a mass communications strategy for a client
Durham College’s Journalism – Mass Media program has successfully covered the campus and community since 1974 and in 2024 is celebrating its 50th anniversary.
The
Durham College
Chronicle
is created
and produced by students in Journalism - Mass Media program. The Chronicle covers stories about Durham College, Ontario Tech University and all parts of Durham Region. It
has an ongoing history of excellence, winning Ontario Community Newspaper Association honours on a regular basis.
Our
journalism
graduates have a
stellar
track record of producing
superior-
quality work across Canada – for news organizations such as the Globe and Mail, the Toronto Star, CBC, CTV, Global News, the Score, TSN, the New York Times and National Geographic, and in communities from British Columbia to Nova Scotia.
Journalism g
rads have also
established successful
careers as content creators and social media coordinators for
a variety of
companies, agencies and institutions.
Important links:
Faculty of Media, Art & Design
The Chronicle
Instagram:
@dcuoitchronicle
Facebook:
DCUOITChronicle
YouTube
Riot Radio
Durham College’s Rotary Global Classroom
ACCREDITATIONS AND ASSOCIATIONS
The Journalism – Mass Media program at Durham College is a m
ember of
J-Schools Canada
,
an organization of
21 post-secondary institutions with journalism programs
works together
for the enhancement of journalism education in Canada
Program Learning Outcomes
When you have finished the journalism program, you can expect to understand and be able to do the following:
Report on stories in an accurate, detailed, balanced, professional, and timely manner.
Apply computer and technical skills to designated production and research functions in journalism.
Function both independently and as a member of editorial and/or production teams.
Analyze knowledge from communities, current events and public affairs, and history to interpret and express the context for designated journalism publications and/or productions.
Develop strategies for personal and professional development.
Comply with relevant Canadian legislation, standards, and the principles and practices of journalism.
Write and edit content for the designated media platforms.
Publish and/or broadcast content for the designated media platforms.
Apply production skills and use production equipment in the preparation and distribution of content for the designated media platforms.
Assess mass media communications and technologies as they relate to the impact on social and ethical issues.
Select and assess appropriate mass media technologies to meet the needs of the intended audience.
Plan and design editorial content to fulfil a mass media communications strategy for the client’s requirements.
Analyze shifts and trends in mass media technologies to anticipate the communication needs of the intended audience.
Admission Requirements For The Journalism – Mass Media Program
To apply for the Journalism - Mass Media program at Durham College you will need:
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD) or
Mature Student Status
AND
Grade 12 English (C or U) (minimum 60 per cent)
Recommended
Excellent written and oral communication skills
Are you missing admission requirements? We are here to help.
Durham College (DC) offers pre-admission assessment testing to mature domestic applicants to meet admission requirements in English and/or math. Domestic applicants that are 19 years of age or older as of the start date of their program, and who do not have the required program credit(s) i.e., Grade 12 English and/or Grade 12 math are eligible to take an admissions assessment test.
Learn more about how to book Pre-Admission Assessment Testing
here
.
DC also offers Academic upgrading courses are
FREE
and designed to help you meet the admissions requirements for this program. Available to individuals 18+, these courses are offered on-campus at DC. Boost your qualifications with:
Grade 12 Math (MAP4C equivalent)
Grade 12 English (ENG4C equivalent)
Grade 11 Biology (SBI3C equivalent)
Grade 12 Chemistry (SCH4C equivalent)
Learn more about
Academic Upgrading
and connect with our team to get started.
Courses In The Journalism Program
The courses listed below are for incoming students. If you are a current student, please refer to your program of study for the year you began your program. Your program of study can be found on
MyDC
.
Semester 1
Communication Foundations (COMM 1100)
General Education Elective (GNED 0000)
Reporting 1 (JOUR 1100)
Interviewing and Research (JOUR 1101)
Mass Media Fundamentals (MDIA 1102)
Broadcast Production 1 (MDIA 1103)
Photo and Video 1 (MDIA 1104)
Semester 2
Media Law and Ethics (ETHC 1204)
General Education Elective (GNED 0000)
Reporting 2 (JOUR 1200)
Critical and Opinion Writing (JOUR 1201)
Broadcast Production 2 (MDIA 1203)
Online and Print Production (MDIA 1204)
Photo and Video 2 (MDIA 1205)
Semester 3
Field Placement Orientation (FDPL 2104)
Indigenous Elective (INDG 0000)
Reporting 3 (JOUR 2100)
Inclusive Impactful Storytelling (JOUR 2101)
Photo and Video 3 (MDIA 2102)
Podcasting (MDIA 2103)
Multi-Platform Storytelling (MDIA 2104)
Semester 4
Entrepreneurship (ENTR 2210)
Field Placement Workshop (FDPL 2205)
Field Placement for Journalism (JOMM 2200)
Impactful Storytelling With Indigenous Communities (JOUR 2200)
Reporting 4 (JOUR 2201)
Newsroom (MDIA 2200)
Photo and Video 4 (MDIA 2201)
Courses, course descriptions and delivery formats are subject to change.
Course delivery
In person
Students will come to campus to complete in-person learning requirements. Detailed schedules, with course-specific delivery information, will be available after registration. Courses, course descriptions and delivery formats are subject to change.
In person:
Course is delivered in person, on campus within a classroom, lab, shop or studio.
Hybrid:
Part of the course is delivered online, remotely, and part is in-person on campus within a classroom, lab, shop or studio.
Online:
Fully remote course delivery.
Costs For The Journalism - Mass Media Program
Career Options for Graduates
The exciting, dynamic field of journalism is changing rapidly, and new roles are becoming available. With the cutting-edge knowledge and skills you will have when graduating from the program, you will be well positioned to take on one of many challenging rules in a variety of settings.
WHAT YOU COULD BE:
Broadcast journalist (radio, television)
Communications specialist
Content creator
Editorial designer
Editor or editorial assistant
Freelance
r
journalist or writer
Staff j
ournalist (online, magazine, newspaper)
Photographer
or photojournalist
Podcaster
Producer
Reporter
Social media manager
Investigative journalist
News anchor
Digital content strategist
Copywriter
Public relations officer
Video editor
Scriptwriter
Web content manager
Columnist
Media analyst
Online community manager
WHERE YOU COULD WORK:
Communication
s
departments
Freelancing
Magazines
News organizations
Online media companies
Marketing
and advertising companies
Publishing
houses
Public relations firms
Radio stations
TV stations
Corporate (in-house) news departments
Government departments and NGOs
Sports organizations
Media strategy consulting firms
Publishing houses
Podcast platforms
College and University communications departments.
Program Transfer, Degree Completion and Additional Credentials
If you want to continue to add to your education after you finish your journalism course work,
you
may be eligible to apply
your
academic credits toward further study through Durham College’s partnerships with many Canadian and international colleges and universities. Sample diploma-to-degree opportunities include:
Bachelor of Arts (Honours) – Communication - Ontario Tech University (Ontario Tech)
Bachelor of Arts (Honours) – Educational Studies and Digital Technology – Ontario Tech
Bachelor of Business Administration - General Business - Davenport University
Bachelor of Communication and Journalism - Griffith University
BA(Hons) Media (Taught Route) - Robert Gordon University
Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies - Trent University
Please visit our
pathways
page to learn more about how you can transfer your credits towards a degree.
Looking for more pathway opportunities or to transfer to Durham College? Click
here
for more information.
Tech Requirements For The Journalism – Mass Media Program
NOTE: Students enrolling in this program are required to purchase their own laptop.
The hardware and software requirements for the journalism program are quite specific; please pay close attention to the details, including instructions about how and when to download software.
Laptop requirements
A Mac notebook computer is recommended. Please see the
hardware requirements document
for details.
Software requirements
Operating System (bundled with new notebook computer purchase)
Membership in Adobe Creative Cloud™ is included in your Student Fees and will be made available during your first week. There is no need to purchase a subscription.
Microsoft Office (Available for free for students from Microsoft through your DC Mail account. Please do not buy it.)
DO NOT PURCHASE THIS SOFTWARE PRIOR TO STARTING THE PROGRAM.
Creative Cloud brings together everything you need to create your greatest work. One simple membership gives you and your classmates to the very latest versions of all the Adobe professional creative desktop applications like Photoshop®, Illustrator®, Premiere Pro® and more — plus new features and upgrades as soon as they're available. And that's just the beginning. With Creative Cloud™, everything you need to create intuitively and collaboratively is included.
Free downloadable software (please download and install prior to the start of classes. Caution: To avoid malware, only download from the actual developer or using the links below):
Adobe Flash Player
Audacity
Mozilla Firefox web browser
Google Chrome web browser
Brackets
OTHER RECOMMENDED HARDWARE
External hard disk USB-3 or USB-C 1 TB or larger
Headphones (closed or semi-open type, good quality, e.g., AKG K 240 Semi-Open Studio Headphones)
NOTE: These requirements were accurate at the time of posting and are subject to change. Please be aware that hardware and software versions are subject to change and will be updated as needed. For further information and FAQ
click here
.
Meet Your Faculty Experts
Brandon Carson
Faculty Member, Faculty of Media, Art & Design (MAD)
Brandon Carson is a website designer and developer with experience developing and teaching online, hybrid, and in-person courses. Brandon holds a diploma in Web Development, a B.A. in Adult Education and Digital Technology, an M.A. in Learning and Technology, and is completing a Doctorate of Education.
Teresa Goff
Faculty Member, Faculty of Media, Art & Design (MAD)
Teresa Goff is a published writer, award-winning radio broadcaster and college professor with extensive experience designing and implementing curriculum-based experiential learning related to diversity, equity and inclusion. Her classes focus on dialogue, debate and creative development.  Research interests include Indigenization, social innovation, social justice, knowledge mobilization and urban issues.
Danielle Harder
Faculty Member, Faculty of Media, Art & Design (MAD)
Prior to joining Durham College, Danielle Harder was a reporter and producer CBC Radio and Television and wrote for national and local magazines and newspapers. She holds a B.A. in Journalism and an M.A. in Communications and Technology. She is on secondment to the International Education office until September 2026.
Brian Legree
Faculty Member, Faculty of Media, Art & Design (MAD)
A proud member of Durham College’s journalism faculty team since 2003, Brian Legree worked as a newspaper reporter, columnist and editor and radio newscaster for two decades prior to entering the classroom. Brian graduated from both Western University and Fanshawe College and won the 2021 Chair Academy Exemplary Leadership Award
Sam Riches
Faculty Member, Faculty of Media, Art & Design (MAD)
Sam Riches is an award-winning journalist who has worked across the country. He started his career in Yukon, reporting throughout the territory and into Alaska. He returned to Ontario, where he established himself as a freelancer, contributing to publications such as The New Yorker, The Atlantic and WIRED, among others.
Kenyon Wallace
Faculty Member, Faculty of Media, Art & Design (MAD)
Kenyon Wallace is an investigative reporter with the Toronto Star. He has reported on numerous public interest issues, including secret mistakes made by health care providers and unscrupulous driving schools. He has a Bachelor of Commerce from UBC, and an M.A. in Journalism from Carleton University.
Follow us on Social Media
Field Placement
Your
journalism coursework
experience will be
supplemented
by a six-week field placement at the end of the fourth semester in the Journalism – Mass Media program, which will provide you with hands-on experience within your field of study. Students gain valuable experience in a professional workplace setting, allowing them to apply the theoretical knowledge and skills learned in the classroom.
Past placement opportunities have included:
The Globe and Mail
CTV Toronto/CP24
The Toronto Star
CBC Toronto
680 News
Global TV
94.9 The Rock/KX-96/CKDO
Sportsnet 590 The Fan
TSN
The Hockey News
Peterborough Examiner
Entertainment Tonight Canada
Discovery Channel
Durham College
Ontario Tech University
Metroland – Durham Region
Durham District School Board
City of Oshawa
Region of Durham
Central Lake Ontario Conservation Authority
This invaluable practical experience will allow you to apply the knowledge and skills you obtained in your journalism coursework and will further prepare you to work in the journalism and mass media fields.
Experiential Learning
In the second year of the Journalism - Mass Media program, students take class in the morning and work in the Chronicle newsroom in the afternoon. Using all the foundations learned in year one, students edit video and audio, present on Riot Radio as a host, create online and print content for The Chronicle, and stay active across social media platforms.
Additionally, students have the opportunity to take those transferable skills and work with external
journalism and mass media
partners to write stories, produce documentaries and create online content. These opportunities have taken students overseas to the Caribbean, Peru, and Kenya with further trips planned for Guatemala. These experiential learning opportunities build essential employability skills for students and accelerate the transition from school to employment
in journalism and mass media.
Journalism – Mass Media students also have opportunities to work directly with real industry clients, including not-for-profit, government and community organizations. These projects provide
journalism
students with access to real-time coaching and feedback from their professors. They promote teamwork and help students develop and test the vital soft skills that are necessary to succeed
in
the field
s of
journalism and mass media.
Check out first and second-year student journalists hosting their bi-weekly Chronicle on Riot Radio below.
https://video.ibm.com/playlist/529225