https://durhamcollege.ca/programs/occupational-therapist-assistantphysiotherapist-assistant

Occupational Therapist Assistant and Physiotherapist Assistant
Ministry-approved title: Occupational Therapist Assistant/physiotherapist Assistant
Credential
Ontario College Diploma
Location
Oshawa
OCAS Code
OTPA
Next Intake
September 2025
View all intakes
Faculty
Faculty of Health Sciences (HS)
Length
Four semesters
Laptop
Learn more
about laptop requirements
Delivery
In person
Learn more
.

Overview
Apply Now
Domestic application
International application
Overview
Program Details
Admission Requirements
Courses
Costs
Career Options
Field Placement
Transfer
Tech Requirements
Accreditation
Book a tour
Ask a Current Student
Connect with us
Apply Now
Domestic application
International application
Overview
Program Details
Admission Requirements
Courses
Costs
Career Options
Field Placement
Pathways
Tech Requirements
Accreditation
Your Next Steps
Book a tour
Ask a Current Student
Connect with us
Apply Now
Occupational Therapist Assistant And Physiotherapist Assistant Program Overview
Are you passionate about making a
real
difference in the lives of others? The
With the training offered in the Occupational Therapist
Assistant and Physiotherapist
Assistant program
at Durham College, you will be
equips
you with
sought-after
skills
that can transform the lives of people with physical, c
ognitive, emotional, and developmental
challenges. The Occupational Therapist Assistant and Physiotherapist Assistant program is your gateway to a dynamic, impactful, and
rewarding career
in the
high-demand
field of
rehabilitation.
In this dual-trained field, you will work with occupational therapists and/or physiotherapists to
empower
individuals with a range of conditions to achieve their
personal
goals
and improve their quality of life
.
In the Occupational Therapist Assistant and Physiotherapist Assistant program, y
ou will gain real-world experience through hands-on labs every semester
, complemented by
584 hours field placement
through three different opportunities.
This combination of classwork and practice will ensure
that
you
can step confidently into an impactful career as soon as you graduate.
Join us to become part of a
dedicated
profession
that is not only about rehabilitation, but is
committed
to improving
the
overall life-satisfaction, fulfillment, and well-being
of every person you work with.
Ask a
current Student
Intakes and Availability
Date
Domestic
Availability
International
Availability
September 2025
Open
Open
Apply now
Program
Highlights
Success Stories
Resources
Success Stories
Resources
Lead the way
2025 Program Guide
Read Now
Other Resources
Attend a Program Information Webinar
Financial Aid Information
Admission Requirements
To apply for the Occupational Therapist Assistant and Physiotherapist Assistant program at Durham College you will need:
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD) or
Mature Student Status
AND
Grade 12 English (C or U)
Grade 11 or 12 biology (C, M or U)
Please note: This program may be highly competitive and have a specific selection process and application deadline. Please refer to
Admission Process
es
for details regarding highly competitive programs.
Are you missing admission requirements? We are here to help.
Durham College (DC) offers pre-admission assessment testing to mature domestic applicants to meet admission requirements in English and/or math. Domestic applicants that are 19 years of age or older as of the start date of their program, and who do not have the required program credit(s) i.e., Grade 12 English and/or Grade 12 math are eligible to take an admissions assessment test.
Learn more about how to book Pre-Admission Assessment Testing
here
.
DC also offers Academic upgrading courses are
FREE
and designed to help you meet the admissions requirements for this program. Available to individuals 18+, these courses are offered on-campus at DC. Boost your qualifications with:
Grade 12 Math (MAP4C equivalent)
Grade 12 English (ENG4C equivalent)
Grade 11 Biology (SBI3C equivalent)
Grade 12 Chemistry (SCH4C equivalent)
Learn more about
Academic Upgrading
and connect with our team to get started.
Tuition
Year one domestic: $2,722 (CAD)
Year one international: $14,884 (CAD)
View full costs
Semester 1 Courses
In your first semester of the Occupational Therapist
Assistant and Physiotherapist Assistant
program
, you will learn the key principles and practices of the Occupational Therapist Assistant and Physical Therapist Assistant professions. You will explore the basics of human anatomy and movement, and learn the various techniques used to help people undergoing rehabilitation. This semester also includes an overview of the healthcare system and how rehabilitation fits into it and teaches you the essential communication skills you will need to work effectively with your occupational therapy and physical therapy clients.
Basic Anatomy & Physiology (ANAT 1300)
General Education Elective (GNED 0000)
General Elective Credit (GNED 1000)
The Health Care System and Rehabilitation (HSYS 1301)
Interpersonal Communication Skills for Rehab (ICOM 1302)
Rehabilitation Concepts Across The Lifespan (LIFE 1303)
PTA Skills I (PTAI 1304)
View all courses
Career Options
Upon successful completion of the
program
, you
could find yourself working in either field or both. Given the aging population in Canada, you can expect opportunities to continue to grow, and openings to appear in new contexts.
WHAT YOU COULD BE:
Physiotherapist assistant
Occupational therapist assistant
Rehabilitation assistant
Vocational rehabilitation assistant
Special education assistant
Education assistant
Life-skills worker
Rehabilitation therapy assistant
Supportive care assistant
Disability support worker
Client care assistant
Adaptive technology specialist
View all career options
Connect
with us
I AM A CANADIAN APPLICANT
Contact recruitment
Live Chat
905.721.3126
Fill out the form to get more information on your program of interest, upcoming events, and how to become a Durham College student. By submitting your information below, you consent to Durham College contacting you via email and/or SMS with a minimum of 4 messages per month. You may withdraw consent at any time.
Durham College Programs
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Are you currently in high school?
Yes
No
Are you an International or Domestic subscriber
Please select...
Canadian Citizen
Permanent Resident
International
Postal or City
City
Postal
Postal Code
City/Town
Contact Preference
Email
Mobile Number (Standard message rates apply)
Both
Durham
College values the opportunity to provide you with information. Please provide
your mobile number below to allow us to continue to contact you SMS with a
minimum of 4 messages per month
Mobile
Answer here:
SPAMBOTS
reCAPTCHA helps prevent automated form spam.
The submit button will be disabled until you complete the CAPTCHA.
I HAVE ALREADY APPLIED
Email admissions
Live Chat
905.721.3000
I AM AN INTERNATIONAL APPLICANT
Contact
Live Chat
905.721.2000 ext. 7697
I HAVE ALREADY APPLIED
Please
contact the international office
.
Occupational Therapist Assistant And Physiotherapist Assistant Program Details
In this
comprehensive
two-year program, you
will
gain the skills and knowledge needed to become a successful Occupational Therapist Assistant and Physiotherapist Assistant. Working with other healthcare professionals, you will
learn to assist with
implementing
rehabilitation treatment plans and programs
for people of all ages,
from children to older adults, and throughout the continuum of care,
from acute injuries to long-term recovery
.
The
Occupational Therapist Assistant and Physiotherapist Assistant
program is taught by
award-winning faculty,
who
brings
with them
a
wealth
of clinical experiences and
specialized
expertise.
With their guidance and teaching skill,
you will be
well prepared for your future career in rehabilitation
as an Occupational Therapist Assistant and/or Physiotherapist Assistant.
Program highlights include:
Hands-on labs begin in semester one where you
will
learn and practice
occupational therapy and
physiotherapy
skills in small groups to prepare you for success in the field.
584 hours of fieldwork experience, offering diverse placement settings.
Theory and labs specializing in the knowledge and skills necessary to treat clients with a wide variety of musculoskeletal, neurological, cardiac, respiratory and complex conditions
that can be improved with occupational therapy, physical therapy, or both.
Realistic clinical practice and enhanced understanding of clinical conditions is reinforced with simulation scenarios, classroom guests and field trips, where appropriate.
Focus on development of professional
occupational therapy and physiotherapy
skills throughout the program, including effective verbal and written communication strategies to be job ready.
Collaborations with community partners and other disciplines
give
students the opportunity to experience
interpersonal rehabilitation and develop advanced teamwork and communication skills.
Learning Outcomes For The Occupational Therapist Assistant And Physiotherapist Assistant Program
When you have completed the coursework and field placement portions of the program, you can expect to understand and be able to do the following:
Communicate appropriately and effectively, through verbal, nonverbal, written and electronic means, with clients, their significant others, occupational therapists, physiotherapists, and members of the interdisciplinary health care team and others.
Participate in the effective functioning of interdisciplinary health care teams to optimize client physical and occupational functions.
Establish, develop, maintain, and conclude client-centred, therapeutic relationships.
Promote a safe environment that prevents or minimizes potential physical or mental harm to the client, therapist assistant and others.
Practice in a legal, ethical, and professional manner within the role of a therapist assistant.
Document client records in a thorough, objective, accurate, and timely manner within the role of the therapist assistant.
Engage in reflective practice and ongoing professional development activities to maintain and enhance competence.
Perform the roles and responsibilities of the therapist assistant effectively through the application of relevant knowledge of health sciences, psychosocial sciences, health conditions, resource management, and clinical procedures.
Contribute to the occupational therapist's or physiotherapist's assessment of the client and the development, implementation and modification of intervention/treatment plans.
Maximize the client’s occupational performance by accurately and safely implementing the interventions, and related tasks under the direction and supervision of the occupational therapist.
Maximize the client’s physical function by accurately and safely implementing the interventions, and related tasks under the direction and supervision of the physiotherapist.
Admission Requirements For Occupational Therapist Assistant And Physiotherapist Assistant Program
To apply for the Occupational Therapist Assistant and Physiotherapist Assistant program at Durham College you will need:
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD) or
Mature Student Status
AND
Grade 12 English (C or U)
Grade 11 or 12 biology (C, M or U)
Please note: This program may be highly competitive and have a specific selection process and application deadline. Please refer to
Admission Process
es
for details regarding highly competitive programs.
Are you missing admission requirements? We are here to help.
Durham College (DC) offers pre-admission assessment testing to mature domestic applicants to meet admission requirements in English and/or math. Domestic applicants that are 19 years of age or older as of the start date of their program, and who do not have the required program credit(s) i.e., Grade 12 English and/or Grade 12 math are eligible to take an admissions assessment test.
Learn more about how to book Pre-Admission Assessment Testing
here
.
DC also offers Academic upgrading courses are
FREE
and designed to help you meet the admissions requirements for this program. Available to individuals 18+, these courses are offered on-campus at DC. Boost your qualifications with:
Grade 12 Math (MAP4C equivalent)
Grade 12 English (ENG4C equivalent)
Grade 11 Biology (SBI3C equivalent)
Grade 12 Chemistry (SCH4C equivalent)
Learn more about
Academic Upgrading
and connect with our team to get started.
Courses In Occupational Therapist Assistant And Physiotherapist Assistant Program
The courses listed below are for incoming students. If you are a current student, please refer to your program of study for the year you began your program. Your program of study can be found on
MyDC
.
Semester 1
Basic Anatomy & Physiology (ANAT 1300)
General Education Elective (GNED 0000)
General Elective Credit (GNED 1000)
The Health Care System and Rehabilitation (HSYS 1301)
Interpersonal Communication Skills for Rehab (ICOM 1302)
Rehabilitation Concepts Across The Lifespan (LIFE 1303)
PTA Skills I (PTAI 1304)
Semester 2
Concepts In Mental Health (COMH 2303)
Fundamentals Of Musculoskeletal Movement (FMSK 2301)
OTA & PTA Introductory Field Placement (FPLA 2300)
Indigenous Elective (INDG 0000)
OTA Skills I (OTAI 2304)
Presenting Conditions: Musculoskeletal Inv & Evaluation (PMSK 2302)
Semester 3
Fundamentals Of Neurological Structures (FNEU 3302)
OTA&PTA Fieldwork Placement (FPLA 3300)
OTA Therapeutic Skills II (OTII 3304)
Presenting Conditions Neurological Investigation and Evaluation (PNEU 3302)
PTA Therapeutic Skills II (PTII 3303)
Semester 4
Fundamentals Of Cardiorespiratory & Complex Conditions (FCAR 4301)
Communication & Function (FCOM 4305)
OTA & PTA Fieldwork Pregraduate Placement (FPLA 4306)
Presenting Conditions Cariorespiratory & Complex Conditions (PCAR 4302)
Professional Practice for OTA/PTA (PROP 4303)
PTA&OTA Therapeutic Skills III (PTOT 4304)
Courses, course descriptions and delivery formats are subject to change.
Course delivery
In person
Students will come to campus to complete in-person learning requirements. Detailed schedules, with course-specific delivery information, will be available after registration. Courses, course descriptions and delivery formats are subject to change.
In person:
Course is delivered in person, on campus within a classroom, lab, shop or studio.
Hybrid:
Part of the course is delivered online, remotely, and part is in-person on campus within a classroom, lab, shop or studio.
Online:
Fully remote course delivery.
Costs For Occupational Therapist Assistant And Physiotherapist Assistant Program
Career Options for Graduates
Between the aging Canadian population and the increased focus on health and wellness in our society, you can expect jobs for Occupational Therapist Assistants and Physiotherapist Assistants to grow. Here are some of the roles you might take on upon graduation and some of the places you could find yourself working.
WHAT YOU COULD BE:
Physiotherapist assistant
Occupational therapist assistant
Rehabilitation assistant
Vocational rehabilitation assistant
Special education assistant
Education assistant
Life-skills worker
Rehabilitation therapy assistant
Supportive care assistant
Disability support worker
Client care assistant
Adaptive technology specialist
WHERE YOU COULD WORK:
Rehabilitation facilities
Outpatient physiotherapy clinics
Outpatient occupational therapy clinics
Community hospitals
Children
’s
treatment centres
Community development agencies
Long-term care facilities
Extended care facilities
Home care services
Social services agencies
Educational Institutions
Vocational rehabilitation centers
Mental health facilities
Home care agencies
Group homes
Disability support services
Government agencies concerned with workplace injuries and rehabilitation
Non-profit organizations and NGOs that support
people
with disabilities)
Day programs for adults with disabilities
Field Placement
Your learning experience
in the Occupational Therapist Assistant and Physiotherapist Assistant program
will be complemented by a field placement in the second, third and fourth semesters.
The field placement will allow you to
practice your skills and strengthen your abilities
under the guidance of an experienced Occupational Therapy or Physiotherapy mentor.
The placement in the fourth semester will extend into May.
PRE-PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS
For the field placement portion of the Occupational Therapist Assistant and Physiotherapist Assistant program, there are several requirements which must be met in advance. Please begin the process of meeting these requirements well in advance, as it may delay your field placement if you do not have them.
Please note: There are costs associated with Electronic Requirements Verification (ERV), immunizations, lab tests and certifications. These costs include:
Service fees for
Verified,
our documentation collection and ERV verification partner.
Costs to complete mandatory immunizations, lab tests, and certifications.
It is required that students have completed the ERV with Verified to be eligible for all field placement components of this program.
Prior to each placement you must (at your expense) provide:
A clear and current Criminal Reference Check (CRC) with Vulnerable Sector
Check
(
VS
C
). If you cannot provide a clear CRC with VS
C
, you may not be accepted for placement by a field placement agency. CRCs with VS
C
must be obtained from your local police station. You may
be required
to obtain
additional
CRCs with VS
C
to meet field placement agency requirements.
Current Level C CPR from a recognized provider
(annual recertification
required
)
Current standard first aid certification from a recognized provider.
Entry immunization form completed by a health-care provider.
Mask fit testing.
Evidence of COVID-19 vaccination may be required by clinical site.
Links:
Occupational Therapist Assistant and Physiotherapist Assistant ERV Information Package
Verified ERV User Guide
Program Transfer, Degree Completion and Additional Credentials
If you want to continue your education after you
complete the
Occupational Therapist Assistant and Physiotherapist Assistant
Program,
you may be eligible to transfer your academic credits toward other certifications or degrees.
Durham College also offers degree completion opportunities with a number of Canadian and international institutions. Sample diploma-to-degree opportunities include:
Bachelor Of Health Science - Kinesiology – Ontario Tech University (Ontario Tech)
Bachelor of Allied Health Sciences (Hons) - Ontario Tech
Bachelor of Commerce (Honours) bridge – Ontario Tech
Bachelor of Arts (Honours) – Educational Studies and Digital Technology – Ontario Tech
Bachelor of Science (Health Services Administration) - Davenport University
Bachelor of Science (Honours) – Physiotherapy - University of the West of England, Bristol
Bachelor of Science (Honours) – Occupational Therapy - University of the West of England, Bristol
Please visit our
pathways
page to learn more about how you can transfer your credits towards a degree.
Looking for more pathway opportunities or to transfer to Durham College? Click
here
for more information.
Tech Requirements For Occupational Therapist Assistant And Physiotherapist Assistant Courses
To help students have the best remote learning experience possible, Durham College’s IT Services department has identified technology recommendations for each
Occupational Therapist Assistant and Physiotherapist Assistant course
based on course needs and software requirements. While not required, students may want to consider these suggestions if they are purchasing a computer or laptop for the upcoming academic year.
Processor
: i3
RAM
: 4GB
Storage
: 256GB SSD
Operating System:
Microsoft Windows 10 Professional or Education x64 SP1
Internet Browser
: Internet Explorer 11 or Google Chrome (newest version) or Firefox (newest version)
Network Adapter
: 802.11ac 2.4/5 GHz wireless adapter
Camera:
Webcam
/
built-in camera
Internet connection
Questions regarding technology recommendations can be directed to the
IT Service Desk
or the
school office
.
Accreditation
The Occupational Therapist Assistant and Physiotherapist Assistant Program at Durham College has been accredited by the Occupational Therapist Assistant and Physiotherapist Assistant Education Accreditation Program (OTA & PTA EAP) in collaboration with Physiotherapy Education Accreditation Canada (PEAC) and the Canadian Association of Occupational Therapists (CAOT). The status of Accreditation was awarded to the program on April 30,
2020
for the period until April 30, 2026.
Occupational Therapist Assistant and Physiotherapist Assistant Education Accreditation Program, Suite 26, 509 Commissioners Road West, London, Ontario, N6J 1Y5, (226) 636-0632,
www.otapta.ca
.