https://durhamcollege.ca/programs/recreation-and-leisure-services

Recreation and Leisure Services
Ministry-approved title: Recreation And Leisure Services
Credential
Ontario College Diploma
Location
Oshawa
OCAS Code
RECL
Next Intake
September 2025
View all intakes
Faculty
Faculty of Business
Length
Four semesters
Laptop
Learn more
about laptop requirements
Delivery
In person
Learn more
.

Overview
Apply Now
Domestic application
International application
Overview
Program Details
Admission Requirements
Courses
Costs
Career Options
Experiential Learning
Transfer
Tech Requirements
Industry Partners
Book a tour
Ask a Current Student
Connect with us
Apply Now
Domestic application
International application
Overview
Program Details
Admission Requirements
Courses
Costs
Career Options
Industry Partners
Experiential Learning
Pathways
Tech Requirements
Your Next Steps
Book a tour
Ask a Current Student
Connect with us
Apply Now
Recreation And Leisure Services Program Overview
Recreation and leisure professionals provide healthy, well-rounded lifestyle opportunities for community members to connect, play, and grow. Helping people of all ages to engage in recreation and leisure programs and events is at the heart of a career in the recreation and leisure field.
Th
e Recreation and Leisure Services
program
at Durham College
will provide you with the skills and experience needed to start your career in government, non-profit or commercial recreation organizations.
In the program,
you will experience an interesting blend of hands-on management training, program and event planning, implementation and evaluation, while learning how to use software
standard in the recreation and leisure industry.
With the increased focus on wellness and self-care today, individuals with training in recreation and leisure are in high demand. Join us and take your first steps into a bright future in an exciting field!
Ask a
current Student
Intakes and Availability
Date
Domestic
Availability
International
Availability
September 2025
Open
Open
Apply now
Program
Highlights
Success Stories
Resources
Success Stories
Resources
Lead the way
2025 Program Guide
Read Now
Other Resources
Attend a Program Information Webinar
Financial Aid Information
Admission Requirements
To enter the Recreation and Leisure Services program, you will need the following:
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD) or
Mature Student Status
AND
Grade 12 English (C or U)
Are you missing admission requirements? We are here to help.
Durham College (DC) offers pre-admission assessment testing to mature domestic applicants to meet admission requirements in English and/or math. Domestic applicants that are 19 years of age or older as of the start date of their program, and who do not have the required program credit(s) i.e., Grade 12 English and/or Grade 12 math are eligible to take an admissions assessment test.
Learn more about how to book Pre-Admission Assessment Testing
here
.
DC also offers Academic upgrading courses are
FREE
and designed to help you meet the admissions requirements for this program. Available to individuals 18+, these courses are offered on-campus at DC. Boost your qualifications with:
Grade 12 Math (MAP4C equivalent)
Grade 12 English (ENG4C equivalent)
Grade 11 Biology (SBI3C equivalent)
Grade 12 Chemistry (SCH4C equivalent)
Learn more about
Academic Upgrading
and connect with our team to get started.
Tuition
Year one domestic: $2,722 (CAD)
Year one international: $14,884 (CAD)
View full costs
Semester 1 Courses
The first semester of the recreation and leisure studies program consists of introductory courses that will serve as the foundation for your subsequent coursework and experiential learning. In the first semester of your recreation and leisure certificate program, you will take:
Communication Foundations (COMM 1100)
Computer Applications for Recreation (COMP 1120)
Program Management (MGMT 1104)
Marketing for Recreation (MKTG 1104)
Introduction to Recreation and Leisure Services (RECL 1101)
Outdoor Recreation (RECL 1102)
View all courses
Career Options
Completing the Recreation and Leisure Services program at Durham College will prepare you for a wide variety of roles.
WHAT YOU COULD BE:
Recreation
and leisure
programmer for retirement residence/long-term care facility
Activity director
Outdoor education programmer
Parks/Facilities/Recreation
and leisure
coordinator
Fitness and Recreation coordinator
Recreational Sports League convener
Sport/Leisure consultant
Team/club program coordinator
Youth
recreation and leisure
programmer
Recreation manager
View all career options
Connect
with us
I AM A CANADIAN APPLICANT
Contact recruitment
Live Chat
905.721.3126
Fill out the form to get more information on your program of interest, upcoming events, and how to become a Durham College student. By submitting your information below, you consent to Durham College contacting you via email and/or SMS with a minimum of 4 messages per month. You may withdraw consent at any time.
Durham College Programs
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Are you currently in high school?
Yes
No
Are you an International or Domestic subscriber
Please select...
Canadian Citizen
Permanent Resident
International
Postal or City
City
Postal
Postal Code
City/Town
Contact Preference
Email
Mobile Number (Standard message rates apply)
Both
Durham
College values the opportunity to provide you with information. Please provide
your mobile number below to allow us to continue to contact you SMS with a
minimum of 4 messages per month
Mobile
Answer here:
SPAMBOTS
reCAPTCHA helps prevent automated form spam.
The submit button will be disabled until you complete the CAPTCHA.
I HAVE ALREADY APPLIED
Email admissions
Live Chat
905.721.3000
I AM AN INTERNATIONAL APPLICANT
Contact
Live Chat
905.721.2000 ext. 7697
I HAVE ALREADY APPLIED
Please
contact the international office
.
Recreation And Leisure Services Program Details
This popular program
equips
students with the leadership skills and training required to
excel in the field of recreation and leisure services. You will learn to:
Strategically plan, implement, evaluate and manage programs for community members of all ages and abilities.
Prepare budgets and raise funds
for organizations and groups offering recreation and leisure services.
Market activities
in the recreation and leisure space.
Manage staff,
including
teams of volunteers and other recreation and leisure service
s
providers.
As a graduate, you can pursue an exciting and rewarding career offering recreation programs
to diverse community members.
In our recreation and leisure services program, you
will study:
Community engagement
Facility management
Fundraising
Outdoor recreation
and leisure
Program and event management
Inclusive and therapeutic recreation
You will have the opportunity to obtain
sought-after certifications related to community recreation and leisure, including:
HIGH FIVE certifications in Principles of Healthy Child Development (PHCD)
Principles of Healthy Aging and Quality Experience
Scanning Tool 2 (QUEST 2) from Parks and Recreation Ontario,
Additional recreation and leisure
workshops and certifications embedded within the program.
Y
ou will
also
get hands-on experience with the
recreation management software
packages
used
most commonly
in the Canadian recreation
and leisure
industry.
Students
in the Recreation and Leisure Services program
also receive Parks and Recreation Ontario and Therapeutic Recreation Ontario memberships.
Program Learning Outcomes
Upon completing the Recreation and Leisure Services program, you can expect to understand and be able to do the following:
Develop, implement and evaluate inclusive recreation, leisure and wellness programs and events for individuals, groups and communities which respond to assessed needs, interests, abilities and that use available resources and incorporate best practices.
Apply administrative and customer service skills to support the delivery of recreation, leisure and wellness programs, events and services.
Analyze, develop and implement marketing strategies to reach diverse individuals, groups and communities for programs, events, services and facilities using current communication technologies.
Contribute to the development of fiscally sustainable and responsible recreation, leisure and wellness programs, events and services using current and relevant principles and practices of business, finance and social entrepreneurship.
Supervise, lead and support the development of staff and volunteers involved with recreation, leisure and wellness programs, events and services.
Apply safety and accessibility practices to the efficient operation and administration of recreation and leisure facilities and settings.
Promote the benefits and values of recreation, leisure and healthy active living and recommend inclusive programs, events and services to individuals and groups.
Apply community development strategies which engage citizens and community partners while advocating for healthy communities.
Develop strategies for ongoing personal and professional development as a recreation and leisure services professional.
Recreation And Leisure Services Admission Requirements
To enter the Recreation and Leisure Services program, you will need the following:
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD) or
Mature Student Status
AND
Grade 12 English (C or U)
Are you missing admission requirements? We are here to help.
Durham College (DC) offers pre-admission assessment testing to mature domestic applicants to meet admission requirements in English and/or math. Domestic applicants that are 19 years of age or older as of the start date of their program, and who do not have the required program credit(s) i.e., Grade 12 English and/or Grade 12 math are eligible to take an admissions assessment test.
Learn more about how to book Pre-Admission Assessment Testing
here
.
DC also offers Academic upgrading courses are
FREE
and designed to help you meet the admissions requirements for this program. Available to individuals 18+, these courses are offered on-campus at DC. Boost your qualifications with:
Grade 12 Math (MAP4C equivalent)
Grade 12 English (ENG4C equivalent)
Grade 11 Biology (SBI3C equivalent)
Grade 12 Chemistry (SCH4C equivalent)
Learn more about
Academic Upgrading
and connect with our team to get started.
Industry Partners
ACCREDITATIONS AND ASSOCIATIONS
The Recreation and Leisure Services program is part of the Faculty of Business, giving students access to special opportunities.
S
tudents entering their first year of studies in a Faculty of Business program will receive a membership to all of Durham Region’s Chambers of Commerce and Boards of Trade for the duration of their studies, plus an additional year following graduation. As one of the only colleges in Ontario with this offering, DC is proud to provide students with access to local businesses at a regional level.
The Chambers of Commerce and Boards of Trade include:
Ajax-Pickering Board of Trade
Brock Board of Trade
Clarington Board of Trade
Greater Oshawa Chamber of Commerce
Newcastle and District Chamber of Commerce
North Durham Chamber of Commerce
Whitby Chamber of Commerce
These memberships can enhance your education and career prospects in the recreation and leisure field. Advantages of belonging to a chamber of commerce or board of trade include:
Opportunities to connect with over 2,500 local businesses and jumpstart your career by networking with potential future employers;
Access to professional development events across Durham Region to gain unique business insights and learn from industry leaders; and
Learning opportunities to develop the in-demand skills to launch a successful career.
Access to resources including workshops, seminars, and industry-specific information that can enhance your knowledge and skills.
Community involvement.
Access to job postings and volunteer opportunities in recreation and leisure services that may not be advertised elsewhere.
The opportunity to advocate for greater recreation and leisure resources in your community.
CERTIFICATIONS
E
nrolling in recreation and leisure studies can include several additional certifications. You will be able to add these to your resume, highlighting the range of your education and experience!
High Five Quality Experience Scanning Tool (QUEST 2)
U-First training for professional caregivers for people with Alzheimer’s disease and other dementias from the Alzheimer Society of Ontario
Physical Literacy and Inclusion Training (Abilities Centre)
Sport for Life – Safe Sport Training
Sport for Life – Introduction to Long-Term Development in Sport and Physical Activity
First Aid & CPR-C
Recreation And Leisure Services Program Courses
The courses listed below are for incoming students. If you are a current student, please refer to your program of study for the year you began your program. Your program of study can be found on
MyDC
. Students are responsible to ensure they are not duplicating their GNED or FNMI selections as per their diploma requirements. For a successful program completion, students must have successfully completed three unique elective courses as per their program of study.
Semester 1
Communication Foundations (COMM 1100)
Computer Applications for Recreation (COMP 1120)
Program Management (MGMT 1104)
Marketing for Recreation (MKTG 1104)
Introduction to Recreation and Leisure Services (RECL 1101)
Outdoor Recreation (RECL 1102)
Semester 2
Field Placement Preparation and Career Planning (FDPL 1204)
Finance and Revenue Generation (FINC 1201)
General Education Elective (GNED 0000)
Event Management (MGMT 1225)
Facility Management (MGMT 1226)
Community Engagement and Development (RECL 1202)
Sport Development In Canada (SPOR 1100)
Semester 3
General Education Elective (GNED 0000)
Volunteer and Non Profit Management (MGMT 2108)
Organizational Behaviour and Leadership (MGMT 2109)
Digital and Social Media In Recreation (MKTG 2103)
Field Placement 1 (RECL 2102)
Inclusive and Therapeutic Recreation (RECL 2103)
Semester 4
Entrepreneurship and Recreation Business Strategies (ENTR 2209)
General Education Elective (GNED 0000)
Wellness In The Workplace (HLTH 2203)
Fundraising (MGMT 2217)
Field Placement 2 (RECL 2201)
The Future Of Recreation (RECL 2202)
Courses, course descriptions and delivery formats are subject to change.
Course delivery
In person
Students will come to campus to complete in-person learning requirements. Detailed schedules, with course-specific delivery information, will be available after registration. Courses, course descriptions and delivery formats are subject to change.
In person:
Course is delivered in person, on campus within a classroom, lab, shop or studio.
Hybrid:
Part of the course is delivered online, remotely, and part is in-person on campus within a classroom, lab, shop or studio.
Online:
Fully remote course delivery.
Costs For The Recreation And Leisure Services Program
Career Options for Graduates
Completing the Recreation and Leisure Services program will prepare you to take on one of a number of roles in a variety of settings. With an aging population and an increasing focus on wellness, fitness, and self-care, look for opportunities in this field to grow.
WHAT YOU COULD BE:
Recreation
and leisure
programmer for retirement residence/long-term care facility
Activity director
Outdoor education programmer
Parks/Facilities/Recreation
and leisure
coordinator
Fitness and Recreation coordinator
Recreational Sports League convener
Sport/Leisure consultant
Team/club program coordinator
Youth
recreation and leisure
programmer
Recreation manager
WHERE YOU COULD WORK:
Community centres
Municipal government agencies
Not-for-profit agencies
Outdoor education centres
Private /commercial organizations
Retirement residences
Long-term care facilities
Sport organizations
Therapeutic institutions
Recreation/event tourism
Resorts and Spas
Health and Wellness Centers
Corporate Wellness Programs
Youth Camps and Retreat Centers
Adventure and Eco-Tourism Companies
Universities and Colleges (Campus Recreation)
Correctional Facilities (Rehabilitation Programs)
Hospitals (Pediatric or Geriatric Recreation)
Fitness Centers and Gyms
Experiential Learning
Your learning experience will be
supplemented
by two field placements of 120 hours each in the final year
of your recreation and leisure studies.
This invaluable practical experience
will
allow you to apply
the knowledge and skills you have obtained,
and will further
prepare you for working in
the recreation and leisure
industry.
Documentation Requirements
To be eligible for the field placement component of this program you must (at your expense) provide:
Entry Immunization form completed by a health-care provider
Criminal Reference Check with Vulnerable Sector Screening (valid for 6 months)
In order to maintain confidentiality and security, the program utilizes an independent provider,
Verified by Synergy Gateway
for field placement documentation collection and validation. This process is the Requirements Verification (ERV). There is a cost associated with this external agency of $52.00. Please refer to the
Recreation and Leisure Services Program ERV Information Package
for details.
Program Transfer, Degree Completion and Additional Credentials
Durham College also offers degree completion opportunities with a number of Canadian and international institutions. Sample diploma-to-degree opportunities include:
Bachelor of Commerce (Honours) bridge – Ontario Tech University (Ontario Tech)
Bachelor of Arts (Honours) – Educational Studies and Digital Technology – Ontario Tech
Bachelor of Recreation and Leisure Studies - Brock University
Bachelor of Science (Honours) Sports Studies - Hartpury College
Bachelor of Business Administration – Marketing - Davenport University
Bachelor of Business Administration – Sport Management - Davenport University
Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in Events Management (Taught Route) - Robert Gordon University
Please visit out
pathways
page to learn more about how you can transfer your credits towards a degree.
Looking for more pathway opportunities or to transfer to Durham College? Click
here
for more information.
Tech Requirements for Recreation and Leisure Services Students
To help students have the best learning experience possible, Durham College’s IT Services department has identified technology recommendations for
courses in the Recreation and Leisure Services program.
While not required, students may want to consider these suggestions if they are purchasing a computer or laptop for the upcoming academic year.
MINIMUM RECOMMENDED HARDWARE
Processor
: i3
RAM
: 4GB
Storage
: 256GB SSD
Operating System:
Microsoft Windows 10 Professional or Education x64 SP1
Internet Browser
: Internet Explorer 11 or Google Chrome (newest version) or Firefox (newest version)
Network Adapter
: 802.11ac 2.4/5 GHz wireless adapter
Camera:
Webcam
/
built-in camera
Internet connection
Questions regarding technology recommendations can be directed to the
IT Service Desk
or the
faculty office
.