https://durhamcollege.ca/programs/supply-chain-management-global-canadian-context-graduate-certificate

Supply Chain Management – Global – Canadian Context (graduate certificate)
Ministry-approved title: Supply Chain Management – Canadian Context
Credential
Ontario College Graduate Certificate
Location
Oshawa
OCAS Code
SCMX
Next Intake
May 2025
View all intakes
Faculty
Faculty of Business
Length
Four semesters
Laptop
Learn more
about laptop requirements
Delivery
In person
Learn more
.

Overview
Apply Now
Domestic application
International application
Overview
Program Details
Admission Requirements
Courses
Costs
Career Options
Transfer
Tech Requirements
Industry Partners
Work Term
Book a tour
Ask a Current Student
Connect with us
Apply Now
International application
Overview
Program Details
Admission Requirements
Courses
Costs
Career Options
Industry Partners
Pathways
Tech Requirements
Work Term
Your Next Steps
Book a tour
Ask a Current Student
Connect with us
Apply Now
Program Overview
Embark on a journey into the heart of global commerce with our Supply Chain Management – Global program. Spanning continents and industries, this certificate equips you to master the intricate flow of product, from
inception
to consumption,
optimizing
every step along the way. In Canada’s vital supply chain sector, boasting over 800,000 professionals, your
expertise
will be in high demand. With a blend of business acumen and technical prowess,
you’ll
delve deep into the interconnected web of supply chain dynamics, earning globally recognized certifications along the path. Elevate your career and stand out in the global job market with our program’s prestigious offerings, from Microsoft Office Specialist certifications to SAP credentials. Unlock your potential today
.
Ask a
current Student
Intakes and Availability
Date
Domestic
Availability
International
Availability
May 2025
Closed
Open
Apply now
Program
Highlights
Success Stories
Resources
Success Stories
Resources
Lead the way
2025 Program Guide
Read Now
Other Resources
Attend a Program Information Webinar
Financial Aid Information
Admission Requirements
Diploma or degree
Proof of English language proficiency required
OR
A minimum of three years of related industry experience detailed in a professional resumé with a letter of intent may be considered
Proof of English language proficiency required
Applicants who are internationally educated in a non‐English speaking country must meet Durham College’s
English Language Proficiency Policy
.
Please note: This program may be highly competitive and have a specific selection process and application deadline.
Tuition
Year one international: $15,091.82 (CAD)
View full costs
Semester 1 Courses
Communication for Business Professionals (COMM 1001)
Bus Comp Apps and Data Mgmt (COMP 1004)
Canadian Business and Commerce (COMR 1001)
Principles Of Ethics and Professionalism (ETHC 1001)
Canadian History, Culture and Politics (HIST 1001)
Canadian Laws and Regulations (LAWW 1001)
View all courses
Career Options
WHAT YOU COULD BE
Business data analyst
Demand and supply planner
Inventory coordinator or manager
Operations coordinator or manager
Production logistics coordinator
Purchasing agent or officer
Quality control coordinator or manager
Supply chain manager or supervisor
Tracking and scheduling supervisor
Warehouse and distribution coordinator or manager
View all career options
Connect
with us
Contact recruitment
Live Chat
905.721.3126
Fill out the form to get more information on your program of interest, upcoming events, and how to become a Durham College student. By submitting your information below, you consent to Durham College contacting you via email and/or SMS with a minimum of 4 messages per month. You may withdraw consent at any time.
Durham College Programs
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Are you currently in high school?
Yes
No
Are you an International or Domestic subscriber
Please select...
Canadian Citizen
Permanent Resident
International
Postal or City
City
Postal
Postal Code
City/Town
Contact Preference
Email
Mobile Number (Standard message rates apply)
Both
Durham
College values the opportunity to provide you with information. Please provide
your mobile number below to allow us to continue to contact you SMS with a
minimum of 4 messages per month
Mobile
Answer here:
SPAMBOTS
reCAPTCHA helps prevent automated form spam.
The submit button will be disabled until you complete the CAPTCHA.
I HAVE ALREADY APPLIED
Email admissions
Live Chat
905.721.3000
I AM AN INTERNATIONAL APPLICANT
Contact
Live Chat
905.721.2000 ext. 7697
I HAVE ALREADY APPLIED
Please
contact the international office
.
Program Details
Crossing borders and spanning oceans, supply chain is a global industry that
provides endless opportunities for skilled professionals
who can plan, control, execute and
optimize
a product’s flow from point of origin to point of consumption in the most economical way possible. Each major phase of a product’s movement through the supply chain has its own distinct business process and discipline, and supply chain professionals have the unique knowledge and skillset needed to effectively manage the intricacies of this process.
Graduates of this program will be well-prepared to enter the workforce with
the
job-ready skills
that employers
seek
in complex problem-solving, business analytics, decision-making and communications. With the Durham region
emerging
as an integrated
logistics
and distribution hub for the GTA and Eastern Ontario markets, graduates will have access to increasing employment opportunities and competitive compensation right here.
Students will also be able to earn
additional
embedded industry credentials, including the SAP – UA Student Recognition Award and Microsoft Office Specialist Certification in Excel Associate and Excel Expert, to help them stand out to employers in a competitive market.
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATIONS
This program has been approved by the National Institute of Supply Chain Leaders (NISCL) for advanced standing towards
attaining
the Certified Supply Chain Leader (CSCL) designation. See more details about the accredited agreement here:
https://scmao.ca/cscmp-pathways-durham-college
.
This program has been approved by Supply Chain Canada for advanced standing towards
attaining
the Supply Chain Management Professional (SCMP) designation. See more details about the accredited agreement here:
https://www.supplychaincanada.com/media/pathways/Accreditation%20Agreements%20with%20Academic%20Institutions.pdf
Partnerships with the following professional associations will provide you with opportunities to interact with professionals in the field and build your network:
Association for Supply Chain Management (ASCM)
National Institute of Supply Chain Leaders (NISCL)
Ontario Public Buyers Association (OPBA)
The Institute for Public Procurement (NIGP)
Supply Chain Canada
Students can increase their marketability by
leveraging
the learning built directly into the program to help obtain the following globally recognized
additional
credentials:
SAP-UA Student Recognition Award
Issued upon program completion and achievement of a minimum grade of 70% in all three of the following courses:
Integrated Business Process Management
Global Materials Management and Enterprise Resource Planning Systems
Strategic Supply Chain Management - Capstone
Graduates are also well-positioned to pursue a variety of professional accreditations with industry organizations, including:
Association for Supply Chain Management (ASCM)
Certified in Production and Inventory Management (CPIM)
Certified Supply Chain Professional (CSCP)
Certified in Logistics, Transportation and Distribution (CLTD)
Certified in Transformation for Supply Chain (CTSC)
National Institute of Supply Chain Leaders (NISCL)
Certified Supply Chain Leader (CSCL) designation
Supply Chain Canada
Supply Chain Management Professional (SCMP) designation
PROGRAM LEARNING OUTCOMES
Examine the connections between strategic objectives, stakeholder expectations, and supply chain design, functions, processes and roles, to guide decision-making, problem-solving and coordination of tasks.
Determine the value added and financial implications of supply chain decisions and design on overall business profitability, efficiency and stakeholder satisfaction.
Ensure supply chain activities and transactions are compliant with relevant legal, regulatory and contractual obligations, and industry and organization standards and policies for quality, health, safety, accountability, social and environmental responsibility.
Use risk mitigation tools and strategies to inform supply chain management decisions.
Contribute to the acquisition and sale of goods, services and materials in accordance with best practices and public and private sector stakeholder expectations across a variety of industries.
Contribute to the strategic planning and scheduling of material requirements, resource allocation and inventory for efficient production and fulfillment of customer orders and returns.
Use available technologies to enhance work performance and support supply chain functions, processes, transactions and communications.
Monitor relevant trends, emerging technologies, and local and global economic, political and environmental issues to enhance work performance and guide management decisions.
Use leadership and communication skills to establish and manage strategic relationships with a diversity of stakeholders and support the achievement of business goals.
Develop and apply ongoing strategies for personal, career and professional development.
Admission Requirements
Diploma or degree
Proof of English language proficiency required
OR
A minimum of three years of related industry experience detailed in a professional resumé with a letter of intent may be considered
Proof of English language proficiency required
Applicants who are internationally educated in a non‐English speaking country must meet Durham College’s
English Language Proficiency Policy
.
Please note: This program may be highly competitive and have a specific selection process and application deadline.
Industry Partners
ADDITIONAL CREDENTIALS
Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate Certification
Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Expert Certification
CCI Learning is the exclusive Canadian partner of Certiport and through our partnership with them it enables us to bring Certiport’s Microsoft Office Specialist certifications to our students.
Students can demonstrate their competencies in three SAP intense courses and earn the SAP-UA Student Recognition Award, which can add an extra edge to their profile. The program includes opportunities to gain valuable credentials and set graduates apart in the competitive job market.
BOARDS OF TRADE AND CHAMBERS OF COMMERCE PARTNERSHIP
S
tudents entering their first year of studies in a Faculty of Business program will receive a membership to all of Durham Region’s Chambers of Commerce and Boards of Trade for the duration of their studies, plus an additional year following graduation. As one of the only colleges in Ontario with this offering, DC is proud to provide students with access to local businesses at a regional level.
The Chambers of Commerce and Boards of Trade include:
Ajax-Pickering Board of Trade
Brock Board of Trade
Clarington Board of Trade
Greater Oshawa Chamber of Commerce
Newcastle and District Chamber of Commerce
North Durham Chamber of Commerce
Whitby Chamber of Commerce
Membership benefits:
Opportunities to connect with over 2,500 local businesses and jumpstart your career by networking with potential future employers
Access to professional development events across Durham Region to gain unique business insights and learn from industry leaders; and
Learning opportunities to develop the in-demand skills to launch a successful career.
Courses
The courses listed below are for incoming students. If you are a current student, please refer to your program of study for the year you began your program. Your program of study can be found on
MyDC
.
Semester 1
Communication for Business Professionals (COMM 1001)
Bus Comp Apps and Data Mgmt (COMP 1004)
Canadian Business and Commerce (COMR 1001)
Principles Of Ethics and Professionalism (ETHC 1001)
Canadian History, Culture and Politics (HIST 1001)
Canadian Laws and Regulations (LAWW 1001)
Semester 2
Advanced Tools and Technologies In SCM (COMP 1119)
Integrated Business Process Management (COMP 1122)
Business Acumen for SCM Professionals (SCMT 1102)
Supply Chain Optimization (SCMT 1103)
Global Logistics and Transportation Management (SCMT 1104)
Principles Of Supply Chain Management (SCMT 1105)
Global Procurement and Supply Management (SCMT 1106)
Semester 3
Global Materials Management and Enterprise Resource Planning Systems (COMP 1222)
Professional Ethics and Leadership In SCM (ETHC 1203)
Strategic Supply Chain Management - Capstone (SCMG 1200)
Business Analytics and Decision Making for SCM (SCMT 1203)
Compliance In Global Supply Chain (SCMT 1204)
Global Sourcing (SCMT 1205)
SEMESTER 4 – MANDATORY WORK-TERM
Courses, course descriptions and delivery formats are subject to change.
Course delivery
In person
Students will come to campus to complete in-person learning requirements. Detailed schedules, with course-specific delivery information, will be available after registration. Courses, course descriptions and delivery formats are subject to change.
In person:
Course is delivered in person, on campus within a classroom, lab, shop or studio.
Hybrid:
Part of the course is delivered online, remotely, and part is in-person on campus within a classroom, lab, shop or studio.
Online:
Fully remote course delivery.
Costs
International students should plan for an annual (2 semester) fee of $15,091.82.
YEAR ONE FEES
International
Tuition
$15,091.82
Compulsory Ancillary
$1,925.04
Program Incidental
$
250.00
Total Fees:
$17,266.86
Career Options
WHAT YOU COULD BE
Business data analyst
Demand and supply planner
Inventory coordinator or manager
Operations coordinator or manager
Production logistics coordinator
Purchasing agent or officer
Quality control coordinator or manager
Supply chain manager or supervisor
Tracking and scheduling supervisor
Warehouse and distribution coordinator or manager
WHERE YOU COULD WORK
Government agencies
Manufacturing and production facilities
Retailers and distributors
Third-party logistics firms
Transportation and warehousing organizations
Wholesale trade companies
Program Transfer, Degree Completion and Additional Credentials
Please visit our
pathways
page to learn more about how you can transfer your credits towards a degree.
Looking for more pathway opportunities or to transfer to Durham College? Click
here
for more information.
Tech Requirements
NOTE: Students enrolling in this program are required to purchase their own laptop.
MINIMUM RECOMMENDED HARDWARE
Laptop: Personal computer (PC). A Mac is not recommended – see notes below*
Operating System: Windows 10 Professional (64-bit only) and later
Processor: Intel Core i5 or better
Memory: 4 GB of RAM (8 GB preferred)
Hard Drive: 250 GB or larger (Solid State Drive (SSD) preferred)
Warranty: 3 years parts and labour (On-site preferred)
2 USB ports
Webcam
Microphone (headset preferred)
*Mac Computers
Some required software applications are not available for Mac.
Students who choose a Mac may need to purchase additional software to complete assessments and class exercises at their own cost.
SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS
Windows 10 Professional (64-bit only)
Microsoft Office 2019 or 365 (Students will be provided access to Microsoft Office 365 through the College’s Microsoft Office account)
Microsoft Edge
Google Chrome
Mozilla Firefox
Acrobat Reader
Adobe Flash Player and Browser Plug-in
Optional
AVG
Avira
Mandatory work term
Students gain work-integrated learning experience in a mandatory work term in the final semester of the program. Students must work in a full-time, paid position (at least 30 hours per week) for a minimum total of 420 hours throughout the four-month semester. Positions must be directly related to the student’s current Durham College program and approved by the college. To be eligible for the mandatory work term, students must maintain their academic eligibility in each of the three prior academic semesters.
While the work term is mandatory, employment is not guaranteed and students are expected to conduct a thorough and active job search, both independently and with the supports provided by the Experiential Learning Hub and their co-operative education coordinator.
Work term documentation must be signed by the student, their employer, and the college to authorize the position as students are expected to be participating in productive work rather than merely observing. Progress on the job will be monitored throughout the term by the college.
Program sequence
May INTAKE:
Summer
(May to August)
Fall
(September to December)
Winter
(January to April)
Summer
(May to August)
Academic semester 1
Academic semester 2
Academic semester 3
Mandatory work term
Academic eligibility
Students must maintain all academic requirements to be eligible to participate in the work terms. This includes GPA and course completion requirements:
Academic semester 1
Academic semester 2
Academic semester 3
Academic semester 4
Course completion
All semester 1 courses completed by end of the semester
All semester 2 courses completed by end of the semester
All semester 3 courses completed by end of the semester
Mandatory work term successfully completed
Semester GPA
Minimum semester GPA of 3.0/5.0 (equivalent to 70%) must be achieved
Minimum semester GPA of 3.0/5.0 (equivalent to 70%) must be achieved
Minimum semester GPA of 3.0/5.0 (equivalent to 70%) must be achieved
PASS must be earned during work term
Additional notes
Students who do not achieve this standard at the conclusion of each semester will not be allowed to continue in the mandatory work term program and will be referred to their student advisor to explore their academic options.
Mandatory work term: students must secure a work term position that is full-time, directly related to their current program, and approved by the college as a suitable work term, by the published start date. Students who do not secure an appropriate position by the published start date or who do not complete all required student and employer documentation will be ineligible for graduation from this program design. There is no alternative option to the mandatory work term available.
Administrative fee
In addition to tuition, ancillary and incidental fees, students in this program will have an administrative fee of $475 assessed to their accounts during the academic semester prior to the scheduled work term. The administrative fee goes to support the broad array of support services provided to mandatory work term students. These services are dedicated to support student success.
Working in Canada
In order to work in Canada for the mandatory work term, you must apply for and receive a Social Insurance Number (SIN). To be eligible for a SIN, you must have a study permit with a condition permitting employment.
A co-op work permit is also required. If you asked for a co-op work permit when you applied for a study permit, you should have received it together with your study permit at a Canadian border. You are required to have a co-op work permit before you start your work term. If you did not receive your co-op work permit but you need one, you must apply for it as soon as you arrive in Canada; the International Education office can provide support with this application.
Learn more
Find more information about the benefits of becoming a
co-op student.
Find more information about the benefits of becoming a
co-op employer.
E:
co-op@durhamcollege.ca