https://www.canadorecollege.ca/programs/automotive-service-technician-apprenticeship

Automotive Service Technician Apprenticeship
Level
–
Apprenticeship
More info
Code:
Appren-AST
Type:
Part-Time
Intake:
Monthly
Campus:
Commerce Court Campus
How to Apply
Book a tour
Contact
Code:
Appren-AST
Type:
Part-Time
Intake:
Monthly
Campus:
Commerce Court Campus
Go to Home Page
Programs/Courses
Automotive Service Technician Apprenticeship
Gain the skills and training needed to challenge the Certificate of Qualification exam.
Overview
Gain the skills and training needed to meet the requirements to write the Certification of Qualification exam. Earn while you learn. This program is run in a day release format to allow the apprentice to continue to work in the trade while learning one day per week. This training is a stepping stone to several other trades.
Level 1 now available in an online format
Length of Study:
3 Levels. Each level is one day per week for 36 weeks for a total of 240 hours
Note:
Upon completion, successful students are eligible to challenge the Ontario Certificate of Qualification.
Level 1 Online Hybrid Delivery Option - Overview
Apprentices who prefer self-paced study may opt for this option to complete the Level 1 in-school training. The theory portion is completed online, facilitated by the professor, followed by an eight-day practical block in the Commerce Court motive power shop. The curriculum and course syllabus corresponds with the regular day-release program, but is offered fully online. This is an opportunity to remain in your home community and reduce travel costs, while completing your Level 1 AST
Your Future Career
Automotive services technician
Service manager
Service writer
What You Will Learn
Engine systems
Electrical, electronics and emissions control systems
Drive train systems
Suspension, steering and brake systems
See all details
Admissions Requirements
Admissions Requirements
You must be a signed apprentice with the Ministry of Labour, Training and Skills Development to be eligible to take these programs.  Please go to
ontario.ca/page/apprenticeship-ontario
for additional information.
Curriculum
Curriculum
Semester 1
AST100
Work Practices - Lev 1
AST105
Engine Systems - Lev 1
AST110
Electrical/Electronics & Emissions Systems - Lev 1
AST115
Drive Train Systems - Lev 1
AST120
Suspension/Steering & Brake Systems - Lev 1
AST200
Air Conditioning Systems - Lev 2
AST205
Engine Systems - Lev 2
AST210
Electrical/Electronics & Emissions Systems - Lev 2
AST215
Drive Train Systems - Lev 2
AST220
Suspension/Steering & Brake Systems - Lev 2
AST301
Work Practices - Lev 3
AST305
Engine Systems - Lev 3
AST310
Electrical /Electronics & Emissions Systems - Lev 3
AST315
Drive Train Systems - Lev 3
AST320
Suspension/Steering & Brake Systems - Lev 3
What You Need
What You Need
Textbooks:
Check out the
Campus Bookstore
to not only purchase your textbooks but also view your book list before the semester starts.
Textbook
Purchase 'Electude' voucher, online educational simulation program - apx. $100.00/year subscription
Technology/Devices:
Canadore College has implemented Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) to enhance your learning experience in and out of the classroom while ensuring flexibility in learning.
To learn more about BYOD and to find out what is required for your program, please visit
https://www.canadorecollege.ca/BYOD
Certification/Accreditation
Certification/Accreditation
Certificate
Program Information
Overview
Admissions Requirements
Curriculum
What You Need
Certification/Accreditation
Experiential Learning
Alumni
Testimonials