URL: https://www.lakeheadu.ca/programs/undergraduate-programs/education-consecutive/node/3438

Education - Consecutive
Welcome
Admission Requirements
First Year at a Glance
Enrich Your Education
Tuition & Fees
Our Faculty of Education prepares prospective teachers for a dynamic and rewarding career through unique and innovative programming. By emphasizing critical thinking skills and collaborative learning, we give you the flexibility to explore the teaching methods, concepts, and values that are meaningful to you.
We are leading the way in teacher education. Our program emphasizes practical, experiential learning to ensure you are fully prepared to enter into the workforce post-graduation. Our programs are continually adapted to encompass a variety of educational settings and training opportunities in two divisions:
Primary-Junior (P/J): JK – Grade 6
Intermediate-Senior (I/S): Grades 7-12
Unlike our Concurrent Education program, which is completed along with an undergraduate degree in another discipline, our Consecutive Education program is a two-year program open to those who have already completed a three- or four-year undergraduate degree.
We offer Teacher Education programs at our Thunder Bay and Orillia campus at both the P/J and I/S level.
Lakehead Advantage
We offer a wide range of program streams to address practices that are important to you. Some of our unique program streams include the following
Professional Program On-Site Delivery (PPOD) schedules
Remote Placement Options
Indigenous Education (Canadian Focus)
International Learning and Teaching Opportunities
We also offer courses to develop your professional interests, while addressing theoretical and practical aspects of teaching, such as Outdoor Education, Religious Education, and Teaching English as a Second Language.
Our faculty members are experts and active researchers in their areas of study, including:
Early Literacy and Numeracy
Large-Scale Testing and Evaluation
Indigenous Education
Math and Science Education
Environmental Education
Arts Integrated Studies
We are committed to helping you explore your passions and interests, mentoring your personal and professional growth. Our class sizes are small and conducive to one-on-one learning opportunities with professors. Collaborating with our faculty will expand your knowledge and build effective teaching skills to shape the young minds of tomorrow.
As a Bachelor of Education student you will participate in 105 days of in-class placement over two years, providing you with the opportunities to discover your own teaching style and enter the job market with the necessary experience to be successful. Additionally, our
PPOD
stream in the Primary-Junior division places you in an off-campus setting one day per week to cover course material and develop your practical teaching abilities.
We also offer unique Indigenous teacher education programs. Built on decades of experience in Aboriginal language instruction, our programs are being reconstructed to cmeeting current trends in Indigenous education that focus on experiential learning, land based programs, and traditional learning systems. With two campuses, our strength lies in our geographical location in Northern and Southern Ontario allowing us to centre on the individual cultures of our students. At Lakehead University our Indigenous students receive support and guidance on a personal level becoming part of a family of teachers that are transforming the current education system and healing Indigenous communities.
Apply Now!
Click here to learn about admission requirements.
As a first-year student in the Consecutive Education program, you must complete a specific set of common core courses to develop the foundational knowledge and skills that are necessary to teach. These core courses will depend on your chosen division:
Primary/Junior Core Courses:
Education 4350 – Planning & Evaluation, and Classroom Management Part 1
Education 4351 – Educational Psychology and Inclusive Education Part 1
Education 4353 – Social Difference in Education
Education 4398 – Student Teaching, Part 1
Intermediate/Senior Core Courses:
Education 4350 – Planning & Evaluation, and Classroom Management Part 1
Education 4351 – Educational Psychology and Inclusive Education Part 1
Education 4354 – Literacy and Learning in the Intermediate-Senior Curriculum
Education 4355 – Effective Intermediate Teaching
Education 4398 – Student Teaching, Part 1
You must also complete curriculum and instruction courses that will prepare you to teach certain subjects and learners, and advance your teaching abilities in either a wide range of subjects (P/J) or in your teachables (I/S).
Primary/Junior Curriculum and Instruction Courses
Intermediate/Senior Curriculum and Instruction Courses
Our
elective courses
will help you tailor your education to your teaching interests.
As part of your education in the Bachelor of Education program, you will participate in hands-on student teaching placements to observe effective teaching practices, apply instructional approaches in a classroom setting, and experience mentoring from an associate teacher. You will experience 105 days of in-class placement over two years, providing you with exceptional insight to the discipline and on-the-job training. Visit our
Teaching Practicum
page for more information.
We have partnerships with international institutions. We encourage you to take advantage of our
international teaching opportunities
to learn and work in exciting locations around the world. This experience offers personal growth and professional development, while exposing you to new cultures and educational philosophies.
We offer many
professional development
courses and workshops, both online and in-class, throughout the year for future and experienced teachers wanting to gain new skills or knowledge on a particular topic. Topics include Guidance and Career Education,
English as a Second Language
, Kindergarten Specialist, Special Education, and various others.
Citizenship Status
Canadian/Permanent Ontario Resident
Canadian/Permanent Non-Ontario Resident
International
Academic Year
2024-2025
Campus
- Any -
Thunder Bay
Orillia
Georgian - Barrie
Registration Term
Fall/Winter
Winter Only
Spring/Summer
Attendance Level
Full-time
Part-time
No results found. It is possible that the program you have selected is not available at this campus. Please try again.
Apply Now
Book a Tour
Request a Viewbook
Application Availability
Fall 2025 (September)
Open
Deadline to apply December 1, 2024 -
EXTENDED
Department
Education
Campus
Thunder Bay, Orillia
Degrees
Bachelor of Education, Primary/Junior
(2 Years)
Bachelor of Education, Intermediate/Senior
(2 Years)
Future Careers
Teacher
Principal
Director of Education
Tutor
Second Language Teacher
Writer
Training & Development Specialist
School Counsellor
Adult Library Teacher
Grant Writer
Athletics Director
Youth Worker
Curriculum Developer
Community Development Officer
Learn More
Department of
Education