URL: https://www.lakeheadu.ca/programs/graduate/programs/masters/business-management/node/7275

Business Management
Overview
Requirements
Fees & Funding
How to Apply
Next Step
This application will close to International applicants on April 15th. Only complete applications will be reviewed. Please note: International applicants are encouraged to submit a complete application by early December.
The Master of Science in Management program is designed for students with degrees in business and related fields to prepare for professional careers in management. Building upon their undergraduate studies, students have an opportunity to closely examine a particular aspect of business, while developing advanced skills in management and research.
Students in this program gain advanced knowledge of theory and its practical application by conducting research within the domain of management and commerce disciplines. Students have the option to choose between a research project or thesis stream and work closely with a faculty advisor throughout the research process. The degree also includes seminars and classes that build relevant knowledge and skills that enable the student to use the research process to translate theory and evidence to effective business practice.
Please pay particular attention to our admission requirements and note that
Lakehead University will not assess admissibility of a student until a formal application for admission is received
. Faculty of Business Administration accepts both
GMAT
(or GMAT Focus Edition) and
GRE
. Unless specified in admission requirement,
the GMAT/GRE condition cannot be waived under any circumstance
. There are a number of available GMAT/GRE preparation workbooks, websites and programs to help you achieve better scores. Make sure that official GMAT/GRE scores are available by and sent to Lakehead University in time. We would encourage you to apply if your qualifications reach our admission requirement
MScMgt Program Objectives
Students who successfully complete the MSc Management program will have:
Goal 1
.
Our graduates should have advanced
knowledge of
theoretical and conceptual components of the
management disciplines.
Objectives
Our graduates will apply advanced level knowledge in the use of key management tools when making business decisions.
Goal 2
.  Our graduates should be able to independently
undertake original research
within the domain of management disciplines.
Objectives
Our graduates will formulate a research question, understand quantitative and qualitative methodologies, select the appropriate methodology for a given research question, comprehend limitations, and understand the implications of the analysis.
Our graduates will understand ethical considerations when conducting management research.
Goal 3
.  Our graduates should be able to
disseminate
research
findings in business contexts.
Objectives
Our graduates will
orally communicate
academic work clearly and persuasively to business and academic audiences.
Our graduates will clearly and persuasively communicate academic work in a
written report
to business and academic audiences.
Goal 4
.  Our graduates should be able to
apply research
findings in business contexts.
Objectives
Our graduates will demonstrate an understanding of how academic research impacts the business practice.
Our graduates will perform effectively in a research-oriented position in their profession.
NOTE
: Students in this program are expected to complete all requirements within three terms (1 year) of continuous registration.
Admission Requirements for Masters
Applicants for admission must be graduates of a recognized university, college, or institute as well as show evidence of scholarly achievement. Except where otherwise stated in the Admission Requirements of a particular program, degree students must have a four year bachelor's degree or its equivalent with at least second class standing (B) based on their last 20 half courses or equivalent.
For applicants from countries that follow a British-patterned grading system, please note:
Overall standings are normally reported in lieu of an average. The CGPA can be determined on the basis of annual or overall standings as reported on the transcript or degree certificate.
A minimum grade of B, or Second Class, Upper Division, is required.
The National Diploma and Higher National Diploma are not recognized for admission to a graduate-level program.
Be sure to include a copy of your institution grading scale when uploading your transcripts.
If in doubt, you may wish to order a WES International Credential Advantage (iCap) report from wes.org
An applicant holding a degree other than one in the discipline area to which admission is sought will be considered on the basis of courses taken and academic standing.
Meeting the minimum requirements does not necessarily guarantee admission. No candidate will be admitted unless the academic unit recommends admission. All applicants will be advised by the Office of Graduate Studies in writing of their admission status.
View English Language Proficiency Requirements
View Lakehead University Calendar Disclaimer
Program Specific Requirements
In addition to the general admission requirements for Master programs, the following
minimum requirements also apply
:
(a) Four-year business degree or four-year degree in related field or three-year business degree plus five additional FCEs (10 half-courses at the second year level or higher in the field of study; a minimum of six must be in business at the third or fourth year level, and not already used for any degree considered for admission into this program).
(b) GMAT/GMAT Focus Edition with recommended minimum score of 500, or a GRE General Exam with recommended minimum score of 300. *In-person tests are preferred.
(c) A short outline (approximately 500 words) of intended area of research investigation. The research outline will help the Admissions Committee determine the availability of supervisors.
NOTE
: Graduates of the Lakehead University Faculty of Business Administration with an excellent academic record will be considered for a waiver of the GMAT/GRE requirement
View Calendar
Academic Fees and Important Payment Information
General Information about University Fees
Graduate Tuition Fees
Convocation Fees & Applying to Graduate
Other University and Program Fees
Student Fee and Payment Information
Refund Schedule
Graduate Funding
At Lakehead University, we realize the importance of financial support for graduate students.
Therefore, financial assistance opportunities are available in several forms and are generally awarded to students by individual programs on the basis of academic promise and financial need.
The different funding options available include:
Graduate Scholarships, Bursaries, and Awards
Graduate Assistantships
Faculty Research Scholarships
For your convenience, a searchable database of graduate scholarships, bursaries, and awards is provided below
. Award eligibility, criteria, and application procedures for graduate funding is indicated for each award. Please use the general search tool to find available funding by program. Alternatively, you may also click the advanced search link to specify available funding by program level, award category and/or award amount.
Although financial support
cannot be
guaranteed to all graduate students in all programs, we encourage you to
inquire about financial assistance with your Graduate Coordinator in your program of study
. You may also contact the Graduate Funding Officer in the Faculty of Graduate Studies to learn more about your graduate funding options.
Conditions of Graduate Awards
Graduate scholarships
are based on academic merit.
Graduate bursaries
are based on financial need, although there may be a merit component to the bursary. Where the award designates that an application is required, only those students who have submitted the specified application by the deadline will be considered for those awards. Late and/or incomplete applications will not be considered. Only successful applicants will be notified.
Recipients of scholarships, awards and bursaries must be registered in order to receive funding. Graduate awards are applied to any outstanding balance on the student's account. Students are entitled to their awards only after their fees are paid in full. Only students with credit account balances will be refunded the balance of the overpayment. Overpayment refunds of these awards will be issued at the end of September, January and May each year.
The University reserves the right to make changes without prior notice to the terms, conditions and award values listed in this section and in the University Calendar.
View Lakehead University Calendar Disclaimer
The most up-to-date internal awards and applications are on our new award system
MyAwards
Graduate Studies Funding Database
Program Level
- Any -
Doctoral
Masters
by Title
Award Category
- Any -
Award
Bursary
Scholarship
Award Amount $
Select any filter and click on Apply to see results
Required Application Documents
Except where otherwise stated in the admission requirements of a particular program, domestic degree students must have a four year bachelor's degree or its equivalent with at least (B) based on their last 20 half courses or equivalent. We recommend that International applicants have an overall standing of Second Class - Upper Division or higher.
Meeting the minimum application requirements does not guarantee admission. The Faculty of Graduate Studies will advise all applicants in writing of admission decisions once they are received from the program. Applicants are encouraged to regularly monitor their Lakehead University email and application portal for the most current information.
The first step in the application process is to complete the online graduate studies application form.
After you have submitted the online form along with the required $125 CAD application fee, you will be provided with an online account where you can complete the remaining steps of the application process which include uploading the required supporting documents and monitoring the status of your application.
Click here to Apply to Graduate Studies
After you have applied
After you have submitted the online application form, you can access your account
here
. Any change in your application status will be reflected in this portal.
Graduate Studies Reference Form
An electronic reference form will be automatically sent by email to the references you identify on the graduate studies application form
This form is requested in support of the applicant's ability to undertake advanced study and research
Official Transcript
Click here for information about transcript requirements
Proof of Degree
Click here for information about proof of degree requirements
Program Specific Supporting Documents
(If required)
For a list of program specific documents, please see this program's
Additional Application Information
section (if required, see above)
Official English Test Results
(If required)
For information about English test results, please see our
Academic Calendar
Additional Application Information
Official GMAT/GMAT Focus Edition
(
view note
)
or GRE Score
(
view note
)
Statement of Academic Intent
of 750-1000 words, to outline the nature of the academic and work history, the fields of interest, and the academic goals
Next Steps
Registration Procedures
Before Registering!
Check to
make sure all of your course selections are currently being offered
by referring to the
University Course Calendar
and the
University Course Time Tables
.
View Registration Regulations
View Graduate Course Time Tables
View How & Where to Register for Courses
Check Your Eligibility to Register
You should register as soon as you are eligible
Review the Academic Schedule of Dates
for registration deadlines & important dates
University Graduate Studies & General Regulations & Policies
View University and Graduate Study Regulations, Policies and Guidelines
Apply Now
Request a Viewbook
Application Availability
Fall 2025 (September)
Open
International applicants are encouraged to submit a complete application by early December.
Campus
Thunder Bay
Program Type
Masters
Degrees
Master of Science in Management (MScMgt)
Routes
Thesis
Project