URL: https://www.lakeheadu.ca/programs/graduate/programs/diploma/management/node/201285

Graduate Diploma in Management
Overview
Requirements
Fees & Funding
How to Apply
Next Step
The Graduate Diploma in Management (GDM) is a flexible way for professionals to develop critical skills and business knowledge for their next step in their professional careers. This program is open to domestic applicants only.
Overview
Not all learners are able to commit to a graduate degree program. The Graduate Diploma in Management (GDM) allows students to gain a customized management credential that can be used to address their individual learning needs. Learners who are successful in the GDM may also have the option to transfer into the MBA program upon completion.
To earn this diploma, students must successfully complete two courses from list A, and two from list B.
While the program is available online or in person, please note that each course is typically only offered online once every 3 years.
List A
BUSI 5055 - Contemporary Issues in Organizations
BUSI 5071 - Strategic Management
BUSI 5033 - Project Management
BUSI 5318 - Organizational Behaviour
List B
BUSI 5013 -Business Technology Management
BUSI 5016 - Operations Management
BUSI 5017 - Managerial Economics
BUSI 5031 -Business Law
BUSI 5032 - Management Accounting Information and Decisions
BUSI 5034 - Marketing Management
BUSI 5035- Corporate Innovation and Entrepreneurship
BUSI 5038- Managing Human Resources
BUSI 5039 -Managerial Finance
BUSI 5110 -International Business
*Students may replace a course with another graduate-level business course upon approval of the Graduate Coordinator.
*Admission to the program is competitive; meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission.
Admission Requirements for Masters
Applicants for admission must be graduates of a recognized university, college, or institute as well as show evidence of scholarly achievement. Except where otherwise stated in the Admission Requirements of a particular program, degree students must have a four year bachelor's degree or its equivalent with at least second class standing (B) based on their last 20 half courses or equivalent.
For applicants from countries that follow a British-patterned grading system, please note:
Overall standings are normally reported in lieu of an average. The CGPA can be determined on the basis of annual or overall standings as reported on the transcript or degree certificate.
A minimum grade of B, or Second Class, Upper Division, is required.
The National Diploma and Higher National Diploma are not recognized for admission to a graduate-level program.
Be sure to include a copy of your institution grading scale when uploading your transcripts.
If in doubt, you may wish to order a WES International Credential Advantage (iCap) report from wes.org
An applicant holding a degree other than one in the discipline area to which admission is sought will be considered on the basis of courses taken and academic standing.
Meeting the minimum requirements does not necessarily guarantee admission. No candidate will be admitted unless the academic unit recommends admission. All applicants will be advised by the Office of Graduate Studies in writing of their admission status.
View English Language Proficiency Requirements
View Lakehead University Calendar Disclaimer
Academic Fees and Important Payment Information
General Information about University Fees
Graduate Tuition Fees
Convocation Fees & Applying to Graduate
Other University and Program Fees
Student Fee and Payment Information
Refund Schedule
Required Application Documents
Applicants for admission must be graduates of an accredited university, college, or institute as well as show evidence of scholarly achievement. Except where otherwise stated in the admission requirements of a particular program, domestic degree students must have a four year bachelor's degree or its equivalent with at least (B) based on their last 20 half courses or equivalent. We recommend that International applicants have an overall standing of Second Class - Upper Division or higher.
Meeting the minimum application requirements does not guarantee admission. The Faculty of Graduate Studies will advise all applicants in writing of admission decisions once they are received from the program. Applicants are encouraged to regularly monitor their Lakehead University email and application portal for the most current information.
The first step in the application process is to complete the online graduate studies application form.
After you have submitted the online form along with the required $125 CAD application fee, you will be provided with an online account where you can complete the remaining steps of the application process which include uploading the required supporting documents and monitoring the status of your application.
Click here to Apply to Graduate Studies
After you have applied
After you have submitted the online application form, you can access your account
here
. Any change in your application status will be reflected in this portal.
Official Transcript
Click here for information about transcript requirements
Proof of Degree
Click here for information about proof of degree requirements
Program Specific Supporting Documents
(If required)
For a list of program specific documents, please see this program's
Additional Application Information
section (if required, see above)
Official English Test Results
(If required)
For information about English test results, please see our
Academic Calendar
Program Specific:
An up-to-date CV
A statement of intent (Maximum 500 words)
Next Steps
Registration Procedures
Before Registering!
Check to
make sure all of your course selections are currently being offered
by referring to the
University Course Calendar
and the
University Course Time Tables
.
View Registration Regulations
View Graduate Course Time Tables
View How & Where to Register for Courses
Check Your Eligibility to Register
You should register as soon as you are eligible
Review the Academic Schedule of Dates
for registration deadlines & important dates
University Graduate Studies & General Regulations & Policies
View University and Graduate Study Regulations, Policies and Guidelines
Apply Now
Request a Viewbook
Application Availability
Fall 2024 (September)
Closed
Campus
Thunder Bay
Program Type
Diploma
Degrees
Graduate Diploma in Management