URL: https://www.lakeheadu.ca/programs/graduate/programs/diploma/graduate-diploma-in-accounting/node/42803

Graduate Diploma in Accounting
Overview
Requirements
Fees & Funding
How to Apply
Next Step
****Please note: This program has very specific admission requirements, as set forth in partnership with CPA Ontario. This program only makes admission decisions in mid-May and is only intended for students who have completed their CPA Preparatory equivalent courses through Lakehead University's Faculty of Business Administration.
The application will open in late April 2025 and decisions will be made after May 31st.
Lakehead University’s Graduate Diploma in Accounting (GDA) is a one semester professional accounting program which prepares students to pursue the Chartered Professional Accountant (CPA) designation.  The GDA seamlessly integrates with the Honours Bachelor of Commerce (Accounting Major) and enhances the technical and enabling competencies of our undergraduate students by further developing critical thinking, analytical, integrative and ethical reasoning, and communication skills.
The CPA Ontario Accredited GDA provides students with advanced standing into the CPA Professional Education Program (CPA PEP). Graduates of the GDA will receive advanced standing for Core 1, Core 2 and all four elective modules, thereby, entering the CPA PEP at the Capstone 1 module. Students may save time in achieving the CPA designation by completing the GDA.
Graduates of Lakehead’s Honours Bachelor of Commerce Program who have taken the prerequisite courses as part of their studies, and graduates from other Canadian universities with a degree specializing in accounting and all CPA PEP prerequisite credits, either through a post-secondary institute or the CPA Preparatory courses, may apply for admission to the Graduate Diploma in Accounting.
Admission Requirements for Masters
Applicants for admission must be graduates of a recognized university, college, or institute as well as show evidence of scholarly achievement. Except where otherwise stated in the Admission Requirements of a particular program, degree students must have a four year bachelor's degree or its equivalent with at least second class standing (B) based on their last 20 half courses or equivalent.
For applicants from countries that follow a British-patterned grading system, please note:
Overall standings are normally reported in lieu of an average. The CGPA can be determined on the basis of annual or overall standings as reported on the transcript or degree certificate.
A minimum grade of B, or Second Class, Upper Division, is required.
The National Diploma and Higher National Diploma are not recognized for admission to a graduate-level program.
Be sure to include a copy of your institution grading scale when uploading your transcripts.
If in doubt, you may wish to order a WES International Credential Advantage (iCap) report from wes.org
An applicant holding a degree other than one in the discipline area to which admission is sought will be considered on the basis of courses taken and academic standing.
Meeting the minimum requirements does not necessarily guarantee admission. No candidate will be admitted unless the academic unit recommends admission. All applicants will be advised by the Office of Graduate Studies in writing of their admission status.
View English Language Proficiency Requirements
View Lakehead University Calendar Disclaimer
Additional Admission Requirements for the Graduate Diploma in Accounting
Only those who have completed the Honours Bachelor of Commerce Program are eligible for admission to the Graduate Diploma in Accounting. To be considered for admission to the program, applicants must have:
1. Graduated with an Honours Bachelor of Commerce Degree from Lakehead University or an equivalent degree from Lakehead University.
2. Obtained an overall average of 72%, with a minimum of 60% in each of the following courses or their equivalents:
Business 1012 Financial Accounting
Business 1056 Business Quantitative Analysis I
Business 1076 Business Quantitative Analysis II
Business 2012 Management Accounting I
Business 2019 Finance I
Business 2053 Data and Information Management
Business 2039 Finance II
Business 2052 Intermediate Financial Accounting I
Business 3012 Advanced Financial Accounting
Business 3019 Corporate Finance
Business 3051 Law
Business 3052 Intermediate Financial Accounting II
Business 3071 Strategic Management I
Business 3072 Management Accounting II
Business 4032 Integrative Analysis of Accounting Issues
Business 4071 Strategic Management II
Business 4072 Advanced Corporate Taxation
Business 4232 Strategic Cost Management
Business 4272 Taxation
Business 4412 Assurance I
Business 4432 Assurance II
Economics 1100 Principles of Economics
*Lakehead University may consider graduates from other CPA  Accredited universities with an exceptional academic record or experience. Students must ensure that they have received all core and non-core subject area pre-requisite credits for admission in the CPA PEP. A list of prerequisite courses in each CPA technical competency area for all CPA accredited schools can be found on the
CPA Ontario website
. Additionally, the admission committee will examine program congruency with Lakehead’s Honours Bachelor of Commerce program, including courses that are not included in the CPA PEP Prerequisite list. Graduate from Universities other than Lakehead are encouraged to reach out to the faculty prior to applying.
*Students who started completing their pre-requisite course work ten or more years prior to applying must ensure that they meet
CPA’s Currency of Education Policy
.
*Admission to the program is competitive; meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission.
Academic Fees and Important Payment Information
General Information about University Fees
Graduate Tuition Fees
Convocation Fees & Applying to Graduate
Other University and Program Fees
Student Fee and Payment Information
Refund Schedule
Graduate Funding
At Lakehead University, we realize the importance of financial support for graduate students.
Therefore, financial assistance opportunities are available in several forms and are generally awarded to students by individual programs on the basis of academic promise and financial need.
The different funding options available include:
Graduate Scholarships, Bursaries, and Awards
Graduate Assistantships
Faculty Research Scholarships
For your convenience, a searchable database of graduate scholarships, bursaries, and awards is provided below
. Award eligibility, criteria, and application procedures for graduate funding is indicated for each award. Please use the general search tool to find available funding by program. Alternatively, you may also click the advanced search link to specify available funding by program level, award category and/or award amount.
Although financial support
cannot be
guaranteed to all graduate students in all programs, we encourage you to
inquire about financial assistance with your Graduate Coordinator in your program of study
. You may also contact the Graduate Funding Officer in the Faculty of Graduate Studies to learn more about your graduate funding options.
Conditions of Graduate Awards
Graduate scholarships
are based on academic merit.
Graduate bursaries
are based on financial need, although there may be a merit component to the bursary. Where the award designates that an application is required, only those students who have submitted the specified application by the deadline will be considered for those awards. Late and/or incomplete applications will not be considered. Only successful applicants will be notified.
Recipients of scholarships, awards and bursaries must be registered in order to receive funding. Graduate awards are applied to any outstanding balance on the student's account. Students are entitled to their awards only after their fees are paid in full. Only students with credit account balances will be refunded the balance of the overpayment. Overpayment refunds of these awards will be issued at the end of September, January and May each year.
The University reserves the right to make changes without prior notice to the terms, conditions and award values listed in this section and in the University Calendar.
View Lakehead University Calendar Disclaimer
The most up-to-date internal awards and applications are on our new award system
MyAwards
Graduate Studies Funding Database
Program Level
- Any -
Doctoral
Masters
by Title
Award Category
- Any -
Award
Bursary
Scholarship
Award Amount $
Select any filter and click on Apply to see results
Required Application Documents
Except where otherwise stated in the admission requirements of a particular program, domestic degree students must have a four year bachelor's degree or its equivalent with at least (B) based on their last 20 half courses or equivalent. We recommend that International applicants have an overall standing of Second Class - Upper Division or higher.
Meeting the minimum application requirements does not guarantee admission. The Faculty of Graduate Studies will advise all applicants in writing of admission decisions once they are received from the program. Applicants are encouraged to regularly monitor their Lakehead University email and application portal for the most current information.
The first step in the application process is to complete the online graduate studies application form.
After you have submitted the online form along with the required $125 CAD application fee, you will be provided with an online account where you can complete the remaining steps of the application process which include uploading the required supporting documents and monitoring the status of your application.
Click here to Apply to Graduate Studies
After you have applied
After you have submitted the online application form, you can access your account
here
. Any change in your application status will be reflected in this portal.
Graduate Studies Reference Form
An electronic reference form will be automatically sent by email to the references you identify on the graduate studies application form
This form is requested in support of the applicant's ability to undertake advanced study and research
Official Transcript
Click here for information about transcript requirements
Proof of Degree
Click here for information about proof of degree requirements
Program Specific Supporting Documents
(If required)
For a list of program specific documents, please see this program's
Additional Application Information
section (if required, see above)
Official English Test Results
(If required)
For information about English test results, please see our
Academic Calendar
Application process
The first step in the application process is to complete the online graduate studies application form.
After you have submitted the online form along with the required $100 CAD application fee, you will be provided with an online account where you can complete the remaining steps of the application process which include uploading the required supporting documents and monitoring the status of your application.
After you have submitted the online application form, you will be provided with instructions by email on how to log in to myinfo, where you will be able to review and upload the remaining and required supporting documents.
Graduate Studies Reference Form
(3 forms required)
An electronic reference form will be automatically sent by email to the references you identify on the graduate studies application form
This form is requested in support of the applicant's ability to undertake advanced study and research
Official Transcript and
Proof of Degree
These are not required, as only Graduates of Lakehead’s Honours Bachelor of Commerce Program are eligible for admission to the Graduate Diploma in Accounting.
Next Steps
Registration Procedures
Before Registering!
Check to
make sure all of your course selections are currently being offered
by referring to the
University Course Calendar
and the
University Course Time Tables
.
View Registration Regulations
View Graduate Course Time Tables
View How & Where to Register for Courses
Check Your Eligibility to Register
You should register as soon as you are eligible
Review the Academic Schedule of Dates
for registration deadlines & important dates
University Graduate Studies & General Regulations & Policies
View University and Graduate Study Regulations, Policies and Guidelines
Apply Now
Request a Viewbook
Application Availability
Fall 2025 (September)
Not yet accepting applications
The application will open in late April 2025.
Campus
Thunder Bay
Program Type
Diploma