URL: https://www.lakeheadu.ca/programs/graduate/programs/masters/public-health-nursing/node/7276

Public Health: Nursing Specialization
Overview
Requirements
Fees & Funding
How to Apply
Next Step
Please note:
The Master of Public Health with Specialization in Nursing and Nurse Practitioner Electives program has been temporarily suspended.
In the Master of Public Health with Specialization in Nursing program, students will focus on current issues in the science and/or service of public health, so that they may gain experience through opportunities in any of the fundamental disciplines that underlie public health. The program is primarily intended to prepare graduates for a career in public health practice. The program's objectives are to prepare a graduate who:
possesses advanced health-related education
is capable of critical analysis
understands health-related decision-making at the level of the individual, population, and government
understands research
possesses knowledge exchange and dissemination strategies for individuals, populations, and government
The degree is designed to take into consideration the learner's needs including the unique opportunity to individualize his/her clinical courses to a variety of foci: clinical practice, administration, education, and community health.
The
Master of Public Health with Specialization in Nursing
program may be completed through
Distance Education on a Flexible full-time or Full-time
basis. Those wishing to complete the Master of Public Health program on-campus may apply to the
full-time on-campus program
.
Note that, once admitted to the Master of Public Health program, students are not permitted to change from the Standard Full-time Option to the Flexible Full-time Option, and vice versa.
Full-time students completing at a distance must attend the daytime classes
For those studying at a distance, the Master of Public Health courses are offered using a combination of Zoom videoconferencing technology for real-time scheduled classes, and of Desire2Learn (D2L), a secure password-protected learning environment (e.g., for course resources, e-mail, and online discussions). The connectivity using Zoom allows students to have direct audio and visual contact with the course instructor and with other graduate students during class time and while working together on shared course assignments. In some classes, break-out sessions are structured into the course so that students have both large-and small-group learning experiences.
NOTE
:
Students completing the program as a
full-time
student must complete all requirements within six terms (2 years) of continuous registration. Students completing the program as a
flex-time
student must complete all requirements within
twelve terms
(4 years) of continuous registration as follows: six terms (2 years) of continuous full-time registration followed by up to six additional terms (2 years) of continuous registration, during which no fees are required.
Admission Requirements for Masters
Applicants for admission must be graduates of a recognized university, college, or institute as well as show evidence of scholarly achievement. Except where otherwise stated in the Admission Requirements of a particular program, degree students must have a four year bachelor's degree or its equivalent with at least second class standing (B) based on their last 20 half courses or equivalent.
For applicants from countries that follow a British-patterned grading system, please note:
Overall standings are normally reported in lieu of an average. The CGPA can be determined on the basis of annual or overall standings as reported on the transcript or degree certificate.
A minimum grade of B, or Second Class, Upper Division, is required.
The National Diploma and Higher National Diploma are not recognized for admission to a graduate-level program.
Be sure to include a copy of your institution grading scale when uploading your transcripts.
If in doubt, you may wish to order a WES International Credential Advantage (iCap) report from wes.org
An applicant holding a degree other than one in the discipline area to which admission is sought will be considered on the basis of courses taken and academic standing.
Meeting the minimum requirements does not necessarily guarantee admission. No candidate will be admitted unless the academic unit recommends admission. All applicants will be advised by the Office of Graduate Studies in writing of their admission status.
View English Language Proficiency Requirements
View Lakehead University Calendar Disclaimer
Program Specific Requirements
In addition to the general admission requirements for Master programs,
the following requirements also apply
:
Four-year Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree or its equivalent from a university of recognized standing with a minimum "B" average
Evidence of a commitment to nursing as contained in the student's
Curriculum Vitae
and
Statement of Goals and Intentions
Proof of unrestricted, current registration or eligibility to register with the
College of Nurses of Ontario
or another jurisdiction in Canada for which the practicum will take place.
Two references (one academic and one clinical reference; with the option of a third reference) - the link will automatically send to each referee you identify in your application
Official English Test Results
(if required)
An interview may also be required. Admission decisions will be made by the
Department of Health Sciences
Admissions Committee.
Academic Fees and Important Payment Information
General Information about University Fees
Graduate Tuition Fees
Convocation Fees & Applying to Graduate
Other University and Program Fees
Student Fee and Payment Information
Refund Schedule
Graduate Funding
At Lakehead University, we realize the importance of financial support for graduate students.
Therefore, financial assistance opportunities are available in several forms and are generally awarded to students by individual programs on the basis of academic promise and financial need.
The different funding options available include:
Graduate Scholarships, Bursaries, and Awards
Graduate Assistantships
Faculty Research Scholarships
For your convenience, a searchable database of graduate scholarships, bursaries, and awards is provided below
. Award eligibility, criteria, and application procedures for graduate funding is indicated for each award. Please use the general search tool to find available funding by program. Alternatively, you may also click the advanced search link to specify available funding by program level, award category and/or award amount.
Although financial support
cannot be
guaranteed to all graduate students in all programs, we encourage you to
inquire about financial assistance with your Graduate Coordinator in your program of study
. You may also contact the Graduate Funding Officer in the Faculty of Graduate Studies to learn more about your graduate funding options.
Conditions of Graduate Awards
Graduate scholarships
are based on academic merit.
Graduate bursaries
are based on financial need, although there may be a merit component to the bursary. Where the award designates that an application is required, only those students who have submitted the specified application by the deadline will be considered for those awards. Late and/or incomplete applications will not be considered. Only successful applicants will be notified.
Recipients of scholarships, awards and bursaries must be registered in order to receive funding. Graduate awards are applied to any outstanding balance on the student's account. Students are entitled to their awards only after their fees are paid in full. Only students with credit account balances will be refunded the balance of the overpayment. Overpayment refunds of these awards will be issued at the end of September, January and May each year.
The University reserves the right to make changes without prior notice to the terms, conditions and award values listed in this section and in the University Calendar.
View Lakehead University Calendar Disclaimer
The most up-to-date internal awards and applications are on our new award system
MyAwards
Graduate Studies Funding Database
Program Level
- Any -
Doctoral
Masters
by Title
Award Category
- Any -
Award
Bursary
Scholarship
Award Amount $
Select any filter and click on Apply to see results
Required Application Documents
Applicants for admission must be graduates of an accredited university, college, or institute as well as show evidence of scholarly achievement. Except where otherwise stated in the admission requirements of a particular program, domestic degree students must have a four year bachelor's degree or its equivalent with at least (B) based on their last 20 half courses or equivalent. We recommend that International applicants have an overall standing of Second Class - Upper Division or higher.
Meeting the minimum application requirements does not guarantee admission. The Faculty of Graduate Studies will advise all applicants in writing of admission decisions once they are received from the program. Applicants are encouraged to regularly monitor their Lakehead University email and application portal for the most current information.
The first step in the application process is to complete the online graduate studies application form.
After you have submitted the online form along with the required application fee, you will be provided with an online account where you can complete the remaining steps of the application process which include uploading the required supporting documents and monitoring the status of your application.
Click here to Apply to Graduate Studies
After you have applied
After you have submitted the online application form, you can access your account
here
. Any change in your application status will be reflected in this portal.
Graduate Studies Reference Form (2 forms required, with an optional 3rd)
One clinical reference required
This form is requested in support of the applicant's ability to undertake advanced study and research
Official Transcript
Click here for information about transcript requirements
Proof of Degree
Click here for information about proof of degree requirements
Program Specific Supporting Documents
(If required)
For a list of program specific documents, please see this program's
Additional Application Information
section
Official English Test Results
(If required)
For information about English test results, please see our
Academic Calendar
Additional Application Information
Curriculum Vitae
View curriculum vitae notes
Statement of Goals and Intentions
View statement notes
- see Statement of Goals & Intentions MPH
Next Steps
Registration Procedures
Before Registering!
Check to
make sure all of your course selections are currently being offered
by referring to the
University Course Calendar
and the
University Course Time Tables
.
View Registration Regulations
View Graduate Course Time Tables
View How & Where to Register for Courses
Check Your Eligibility to Register
You should register as soon as you are eligible
Review the Academic Schedule of Dates
for registration deadlines & important dates
University Graduate Studies & General Regulations & Policies
View University and Graduate Study Regulations, Policies and Guidelines
Apply Now
Request a Viewbook
Application Availability
Fall 2025 (September)
Open
Application Deadline - February 1, 2025
International applicants are encouraged to submit a complete application by early December.
Campus
Thunder Bay
Online
Program Type
Masters
Degrees
Master of Public Health (MPH) with Specialization in Nursing
Full-Time and Flex-Time
options available within the Master of Public Health degree
Routes
Thesis
Course