URL: https://www.lakeheadu.ca/programs/graduate/programs/masters/health-sciences/node/7242

Health Sciences
Overview
Requirements
Fees & Funding
How to Apply
Next Step
Only complete applications (including references) will be reviewed.
The Department of Health Sciences offers an on-campus, thesis-based, Master of Health Sciences (MHSc) program that is designed to provide students with the knowledge and skill to undertake a supervised research study in a relevant area of concern, within the broad definition of health.
Please note:
Applicants with a background in Dentistry, Veterinary Sciences, and Bachelor of Surgery/Medicine do not meet our eligibility requirements and will be refused.
Completion of specific required courses, followed by selection of relevant elective courses, allows you to develop both breadth and depth in an area of research interest. Although you may choose to complete research studies using quantitative, qualitative, or mixed-method approaches, you are required to demonstrate beginning competence in both quantitative and qualitative methods. The structure of the program allows you to complete elective courses in research methods and/or in a discipline-based area of interest.
Preference is given to applicants who have successfully completed research methods courses (e.g., statistics, qualitative inquiry, epidemiology, research methods).
Please note, that students are encouraged to identify a potential supervisor prior to
applying
. Admittance is dependent on faculty availability from among
full-time faculty
of the Department of Health Sciences.
Specializations available within Health Sciences
Applicants must choose a specialization as part of their Master of Health Sciences program.
Epidemiology
Indigenous and Northern Health
Gerontology
Social-Ecological Systems, Sustainability and Health
NOTE:
Students completing the program as a
Full-time
student must complete all requirements within 6 terms (2 years) of continuous registration. Students completing the program as a
Flexible Full-time
student must complete all requirements within 12 terms (4 years) of continuous registration as follows: 6 terms (2 years) of continuous full-time registration followed by up to 6 additional terms (2 years) of continuous registration, during which no fees are required.
Admission Requirements for Masters
Applicants for admission must be graduates of a recognized university, college, or institute as well as show evidence of scholarly achievement. Except where otherwise stated in the Admission Requirements of a particular program, degree students must have a four year bachelor's degree or its equivalent with at least second class standing (B) based on their last 20 half courses or equivalent.
Meeting the minimum requirements does not necessarily guarantee admission. No candidate will be admitted unless the academic unit recommends admission. All applicants will be advised by the Office of Graduate Studies in writing of their admission status.
View English Language Proficiency Requirements
View Lakehead University Calendar Disclaimer
Program Specific Requirements
In addition to the general admission requirements for Master programs,
applicants must also submit
:
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
and a
Statement of Goals and Intentions
Two references (names and email addresses) – the link will automatically send to each of the referees you have identified in your application
This form is requested in support of the applicant's ability to undertake advanced study and research
Preference will be given to applicants who have completed statistics and research methods courses
Official English Test Results
(if required)
Academic Fees and Important Payment Information
General Information about University Fees
Graduate Tuition Fees
Convocation Fees & Applying to Graduate
Other University and Program Fees
Student Fee and Payment Information
Refund Schedule
Graduate Funding
At Lakehead University, we realize the importance of financial support for graduate students.
Therefore, financial assistance opportunities are available in several forms and are generally awarded to students by individual programs on the basis of academic promise and financial need.
The different funding options available include:
Graduate Scholarships, Bursaries, and Awards
Graduate Assistantships
Faculty Research Scholarships
For your convenience, a searchable database of graduate scholarships, bursaries, and awards is provided below
. Award eligibility, criteria, and application procedures for graduate funding is indicated for each award. Please use the general search tool to find available funding by program. Alternatively, you may also click the advanced search link to specify available funding by program level, award category and/or award amount.
Although financial support
cannot be
guaranteed to all graduate students in all programs, we encourage you to
inquire about financial assistance with your Graduate Coordinator in your program of study
. You may also contact the Graduate Funding Officer in the Faculty of Graduate Studies to learn more about your graduate funding options.
Conditions of Graduate Awards
Graduate scholarships
are based on academic merit.
Graduate bursaries
are based on financial need, although there may be a merit component to the bursary. Where the award designates that an application is required, only those students who have submitted the specified application by the deadline will be considered for those awards. Late and/or incomplete applications will not be considered. Only successful applicants will be notified.
Recipients of scholarships, awards and bursaries must be registered in order to receive funding. Graduate awards are applied to any outstanding balance on the student's account. Students are entitled to their awards only after their fees are paid in full. Only students with credit account balances will be refunded the balance of the overpayment. Overpayment refunds of these awards will be issued at the end of September, January and May each year.
The University reserves the right to make changes without prior notice to the terms, conditions and award values listed in this section and in the University Calendar.
View Lakehead University Calendar Disclaimer
The most up-to-date internal awards and applications are on our new award system
MyAwards
Graduate Studies Funding Database
Program Level
- Any -
Doctoral
Masters
by Title
Award Category
- Any -
Award
Bursary
Scholarship
Award Amount $
Select any filter and click on Apply to see results
Required Application Documents
The application deadline is February 1st, 2025. Only complete applications, including references, will be reviewed.
Supervisor Information
Please note, students are encouraged to identify a potential supervisor prior to and before
applying.
The first step in the application process is to complete the online graduate studies application form.
After you have submitted the online form along with the required $125 CAD application fee, you will be provided with an online account where you can complete the remaining steps of the application process which include uploading the required supporting documents and monitoring the status of your application.
Click here to Apply to Graduate Studies
After you have applied
After you have submitted the online application form, you can access your account
here
. Any change in your application status will be reflected in this portal.
Graduate Studies Reference Form (2 required with optional third)
An electronic reference form will be automatically sent by email to the references you identify on the graduate studies application form
This form is requested in support of the applicant's ability to undertake advanced study and research
Official Transcript
Click here for information about transcript requirements
Proof of Degree
Click here for information about proof of degree requirements
Program Specific Supporting Documents
(If required)
For a list of program specific documents, please see this program's
Additional Application Information
section
Official English Test Results
(If required)
For information about English test results, please
see our Calendar
Additional Application Information
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
View curriculum vitae notes
Statement of Goals and Intentions
View statement notes
Next Steps
Registration Procedures
Before Registering!
Check to
make sure all of your course selections are currently being offered
by referring to the
University Course Calendar
and the
University Course Time Tables
.
View Registration Regulations
View Graduate Course Time Tables
View How & Where to Register for Courses
Check Your Eligibility to Register
You should register as soon as you are eligible
Review the Academic Schedule of Dates
for registration deadlines & important dates
University Graduate Studies & General Regulations & Policies
View University and Graduate Study Regulations, Policies and Guidelines
Apply Now
Request a Viewbook
Application Availability
Fall 2025 (September)
Open
International applicants are encouraged to submit a complete application by early December.
Campus
Thunder Bay
Program Type
Masters
Degrees
Master of Health Sciences
Gerontology
Routes
Thesis