URL: https://www.lakeheadu.ca/programs/graduate/programs/doctoral/health-sciences/node/53809

Health Sciences
Overview
Requirements
Fees & Funding
How to Apply
Next Step
The PhD in Health Sciences is designed to be a research-intensive program emphasizing the development of research skills with a particular focus on populations who historically have higher rates of poorer health (such as seniors and Indigenous populations). It is a high quality graduate program in which students faculty, and staff together engage in research and scholarly work, including creative and innovative endeavours.
The PhD program is housed in the Department of Health Sciences, whose
mission
is to create and mobilize knowledge, to protect and promote health, and to reduce health inequities. Through applied research, community engagement, and provision of diverse learning opportunities, we help to build capacity to understand and address the complexities of both current and emerging health issues. Our
vision
is to be a leader in applied health research and comprehensive health education that enables and supports individuals and communities to achieve optimal health. Applied health research is an integral part of the PhD in Health Sciences program. It includes a hands-on experience through an innovative Research Internship that  provides  students with the opportunity to apply program content in a real-world, applied health research setting.
The objectives of the PhD in Health Sciences program are to prepare graduates who are able to:
Discuss and critique current and emerging issues and trends in the field of health sciences;
Design, carry out, and defend research at an advanced level to create knowledge relevant to the field of health sciences;
Conduct research and scholarly activities in a way that is consistent with expected guidelines, processes, and procedures in the field of health sciences.
Please note, you must have a potential supervisor or co-supervisor identified before you apply. This person should be a
core faculty member in the Department of Health Sciences
.
The PhD in Health Sciences program may be completed either over 4 years (12 terms) on a
full-time basis
, or over 8 years (24 terms) on a
flexible full-time basis
.
Note that, once admitted to the PhD in Health Sciences program, students are not permitted to change from the full-time option to the flexible full-time option, and vice versa.
Admission Requirements for PhD
Applicants for admission must be graduates of a recognized university and show evidence of scholarly achievement. Except where otherwise stated in the Admission Requirements of a particular program, students must have a Masters degree or its equivalent with an academic average as specified by the academic unit. An applicant holding a degree other than one in the discipline area to which admission is sought will be considered on the basis of Master's courses taken and academic standing.
Meeting the minimum requirements does not necessarily guarantee admission. No candidate will be admitted unless the academic unit recommends admission. All applicants will be advised in writing by the Office of Graduate Studies of their admission status.
View HESC Admissions Requirements
View Lakehead University Calendar Disclaimer
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
View curriculum vitae notes
Statement of Goals and Intentions - PhD Health Sciences
This document must clearly describe your potential research interests
References
Two references - the link will send automatically to the referees you identify in your application
Writing Sample
Applicants will submit one piece of evidence of scholarship to demonstrate the quality of their writing. This can include a major paper submitted for a graduate-level course or a sole authored published paper.
Academic Fees and Important Payment Information
General Information about University Fees
Graduate Tuition Fees
Convocation Fees & Applying to Graduate
Other University and Program Fees
Student Fee and Payment Information
Refund Schedule
Graduate Funding
At Lakehead University, we realize the importance of financial support for graduate students.
Therefore, financial assistance opportunities are available in several forms and are generally awarded to students by individual programs on the basis of academic promise and financial need.
The different funding options available include:
Graduate Scholarships, Bursaries, and Awards
Graduate Assistantships
Faculty Research Scholarships
For your convenience, a searchable database of graduate scholarships, bursaries, and awards is provided below
. Award eligibility, criteria, and application procedures for graduate funding is indicated for each award. Please use the general search tool to find available funding by program. Alternatively, you may also click the advanced search link to specify available funding by program level, award category and/or award amount.
Although financial support
cannot be
guaranteed to all graduate students in all programs, we encourage you to
inquire about financial assistance with your Graduate Coordinator in your program of study
. You may also contact the Graduate Funding Officer in the Faculty of Graduate Studies to learn more about your graduate funding options.
Conditions of Graduate Awards
Graduate scholarships
are based on academic merit.
Graduate bursaries
are based on financial need, although there may be a merit component to the bursary. Where the award designates that an application is required, only those students who have submitted the specified application by the deadline will be considered for those awards. Late and/or incomplete applications will not be considered. Only successful applicants will be notified.
Recipients of scholarships, awards and bursaries must be registered in order to receive funding. Graduate awards are applied to any outstanding balance on the student's account. Students are entitled to their awards only after their fees are paid in full. Only students with credit account balances will be refunded the balance of the overpayment. Overpayment refunds of these awards will be issued at the end of September, January and May each year.
The University reserves the right to make changes without prior notice to the terms, conditions and award values listed in this section and in the University Calendar.
View Lakehead University Calendar Disclaimer
The most up-to-date internal awards and applications are on our new award system
MyAwards
Graduate Studies Funding Database
Program Level
- Any -
Doctoral
Masters
by Title
Award Category
- Any -
Award
Bursary
Scholarship
Award Amount $
Select any filter and click on Apply to see results
Required Application Documents
The application deadline is
January 15th, 2025
. Only complete applications, including references, will be reviewed.
Supervisor Information
Please note, you must have a potential supervisor or co-supervisor identified before you apply. This person should be a
core faculty member in the Department of Health Sciences
.
The first step in the application process is to complete the online graduate studies application form.
After you have submitted the online form along with the required $100 CAD application fee, you will be provided with an online account where you can complete the remaining steps of the application process which include uploading the required supporting documents and monitoring the status of your application.
Click Here to Apply to Graduate Studies
After you have applied
After you have submitted the online application form, you can access your account
here
. Any change in your application status will be reflected in this portal.
Graduate Studies Reference Form
(2 required with the option of 3)
An electronic reference form will be automatically sent by email to the references you identify on the graduate studies application form. These should be academic references.
This form is requested in support of the applicant's ability to undertake advanced study and research.
Official Transcript
Click here for information about transcript requirements
Proof of Degree
Click here for information about proof of degree requirements
Program Specific Supporting Documents
(If required)
For a list of program specific documents, please see this program's
Additional Application Information
section
Official English Test Results
(If required)
For information about English language proficiency requirements, please see the
Academic Calendar.
Next Steps
Registration Procedures
Before Registering!
Check to
make sure all of your course selections are currently being offered
by referring to the
University Course Calendar
and the
University Course Time Tables
.
View Registration Regulations
View Graduate Course Time Tables
View How & Where to Register for Courses
Check Your Eligibility to Register
You should register as soon as you are eligible
Review the Academic Schedule of Dates
for registration deadlines & important dates
University Graduate Studies & General Regulations & Policies
View University and Graduate Study Regulations, Policies and Guidelines
Apply Now
Request a Viewbook
Application Availability
Fall 2025 (September)
Open
Deadline - January 15th
Campus
Thunder Bay
Program Type
Doctoral
Degrees
Doctor of Philosophy in Health Sciences