URL: https://www.lakeheadu.ca/programs/graduate/programs/doctoral/educational-studies/node/7252

Educational Studies
Overview
Requirements
Fees & Funding
How to Apply
Next Step
The Joint PhD in Educational Studies is offered by Brock University, Lakehead University, and the University of Windsor.
The Joint PhD in Educational Studies program offers flexible learning environments, utilizing face-to-face seminars, tutorials, and distance education.  Through the three fields of study, Cognition and Learning, Educational Leadership and Policy Studies, and Social/Cultural/Political Contexts of Education, the Joint PhD promotes scholarly inquiry and the production of new knowledge within the context of a research culture.
Applications are being accepted to the
Joint PhD in Educational Studies
program
jointphdined.org
.
Apply Now
Please note that the application deadline is October 1st.
If you are a previous Lakehead student you MUST use your previous Lakehead ID on the application. If your name has changed please contact the Administrator for assistance at
jointphd@lakeheadu.ca
The designation "home university" applies to your home university, and your dissertation supervisor. You have the right to take courses and seminars or to use the academic facilities at any of the participating universities.
Through the three fields of study,
Cognition and Learning, Educational Leadership and Policy Studies, and Social/Cultural/Political Contexts of Education
, the Joint PhD in Educational Studies Program aims to promote scholarly inquiry and the production of new knowledge within the context of a research culture.
Program Highlights Include:
Individualized plan of study
Multiple approaches to course delivery
Site-based, rotation across home universities
Distance Education (computer literacy required)
Inter-university teams of instructors and supervisory committees
Comprehensive portfolio - an innovative personalized approach to comprehensive examinations
Flexible residency requirements - four terms (two consecutive)
Unique opportunities for collaboration and networking
Full time studies or a combination of full time and part time studies
NOTE
: Students in this program are expected to complete all requirements within a minimum of nine terms (3 years) up to a maximum of eighteen terms (6 years) of continuous full-time registration. Candidates must meet a minimum residency of four terms, two of which must be consecutive.
Admission Requirements for PhD
Applicants for admission must be graduates of a recognized university and show evidence of scholarly achievement. Except where otherwise stated in the Admission Requirements of a particular program, students must have a Masters degree or its equivalent with an academic average as specified by the academic unit. An applicant holding a degree other than one in the discipline area to which admission is sought will be considered on the basis of Master's courses taken and academic standing.
Meeting the minimum requirements does not necessarily guarantee admission. No candidate will be admitted unless the academic unit recommends admission. All applicants will be advised in writing by the Office of Graduate Studies of their admission status.
View English Language Proficiency Requirements
View Lakehead University Calendar Disclaimer
Program Specific Requirements
In addition to the general admission requirements for PhD programs,
the following requirements also apply
:
Applicants must provide evidence of research competence normally demonstrated by a master's thesis. Students who have not completed a thesis must submit evidence of equivalent research capability.
English is the primary language of communication and instruction in the program. Applicants from other countries who have not completed a degree at a university where the primary language of instruction is English must pass the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) with a minimum score of 600 (250 computer-based) or an equivalent demonstration of proficiency.
Application packages are submitted directly to the Joint PhD in Educational Studies Program, Office of the Secretariat. The Secretariat sends copies of applications to the home universities to which applicants have applied. For details on the program's admission requirements and application procedures, please visit the
Joint PhD Program website
.
View Calendar
Academic Fees and Important Payment Information
General Information about University Fees
Graduate Tuition Fees
Convocation Fees & Applying to Graduate
Other University and Program Fees
Student Fee and Payment Information
Refund Schedule
Graduate Funding
At Lakehead University, we realize the importance of financial support for graduate students.
Therefore, financial assistance opportunities are available in several forms and are generally awarded to students by individual programs on the basis of academic promise and financial need.
The different funding options available include:
Graduate Scholarships, Bursaries, and Awards
Graduate Assistantships
Faculty Research Scholarships
For your convenience, a searchable database of graduate scholarships, bursaries, and awards is provided below
. Award eligibility, criteria, and application procedures for graduate funding is indicated for each award. Please use the general search tool to find available funding by program. Alternatively, you may also click the advanced search link to specify available funding by program level, award category and/or award amount.
Although financial support
cannot be
guaranteed to all graduate students in all programs, we encourage you to
inquire about financial assistance with your Graduate Coordinator in your program of study
. You may also contact the Graduate Funding Officer in the Faculty of Graduate Studies to learn more about your graduate funding options.
Conditions of Graduate Awards
Graduate scholarships
are based on academic merit.
Graduate bursaries
are based on financial need, although there may be a merit component to the bursary. Where the award designates that an application is required, only those students who have submitted the specified application by the deadline will be considered for those awards. Late and/or incomplete applications will not be considered. Only successful applicants will be notified.
Recipients of scholarships, awards and bursaries must be registered in order to receive funding. Graduate awards are applied to any outstanding balance on the student's account. Students are entitled to their awards only after their fees are paid in full. Only students with credit account balances will be refunded the balance of the overpayment. Overpayment refunds of these awards will be issued at the end of September, January and May each year.
The University reserves the right to make changes without prior notice to the terms, conditions and award values listed in this section and in the University Calendar.
View Lakehead University Calendar Disclaimer
The most up-to-date internal awards and applications are on our new award system
MyAwards
Graduate Studies Funding Database
Program Level
- Any -
Doctoral
Masters
by Title
Award Category
- Any -
Award
Bursary
Scholarship
Award Amount $
Select any filter and click on Apply to see results
How to Apply:
Applying Directly to the Office of the Secretariat
You must submit applications for admission directly to the Joint PhD in Educational Studies Program, Office of the Secretariat. For more application information as well as how to apply, please click the following link:
Click here for application instructions
Additional Application Information
In order for your application to be complete, you must submit the following information to the Office of the Secretariat:
Completed on-line application
Two complete sets of official transcripts
Reference reports and supporting letters from two
academic referees
Academic curriculum vitae
Evidence of research competence (as required)
Research plan
IELTS/TOEFL (if applicable)
Application fee of $110.00 to be paid on-line
Next Steps
Registration Procedures
Before Registering!
Check to
make sure all of your course selections are currently being offered
by referring to the
University Course Calendar
and the
University Course Time Tables
.
View Registration Regulations
View Graduate Course Time Tables
View How & Where to Register for Courses
Check Your Eligibility to Register
You should register as soon as you are eligible
Review the Academic Schedule of Dates
for registration deadlines & important dates
University Graduate Studies & General Regulations & Policies
View University and Graduate Study Regulations, Policies and Guidelines
Apply Now
Request a Viewbook
Application Availability
Spring/Summer 2025
Closed
Application Deadline - October 1st
Campus
Thunder Bay
Program Type
Doctoral
Degrees
Joint Doctor of Philosophy in Educational Studies (PhD)
Routes
Thesis