URL: https://www.lakeheadu.ca/programs/graduate/programs/masters-specialization/nursing-advanced/node/62090

Nursing - Advanced Nursing Specialization
Overview
Requirements
Fees & Funding
How to Apply
Next Step
The Master of Nursing (MN) program is a coursework master’s program, which includes a clinical placement component. The Advanced Nursing Specialization stream is primarily intended to prepare Advanced Practice nurses to meet the needs of a diverse population. The program may be of interest to individuals looking to pursue careers in nursing education, research, leadership and/or policy.
The goals of the Master of Nursing – Advanced Nursing Specialization program are to educate Advanced Practice nurses to:
1. synthesize in-depth knowledge and theory related to advanced practice nursing;
2. design and implement advanced practice nursing with diverse clients;
3. demonstrate enhanced skills in critical appraisal and research methodologies to contribute to nursing research;
4. demonstrate leadership skills to influence change in nursing and health care, and
5. engage in therapeutic relational practice with individuals, families, communities, and interprofessional care providers.
The Masters of Nursing Program Advanced Nursing Specialization is a six credit program. All students will complete 2.0 FCE of core graduate nursing courses. Thereafter, students will complete 4.0 FCE in the Advanced Nursing Specialization.
Core Courses
Nursing 5015 Nursing Philosophy (0.5 FCE)
Nursing 5016 Qualitative Research (0.5 FCE)
Nursing 5017 Statistics (0.5 FCE)
Nursing 5018 Quantitative Research (0.5 FCE)
Total (2.0 FCE)
Advanced Nursing Specialization
Nursing 5210 Advanced Nursing Practice Theory (0.5 FCE)
Nursing 5805 Advanced Nursing Practicum (1.0 FCE)
Nursing 5211 Nursing Leadership (0.5 FCE)
Nursing 5213 Diversity, Equity and Social Justice (0.5 FCE)
1.5 FCEs Electives from Nursing or from other Faculties with the approval of the Graduate Coordinator
Total (4.0 FCE)
The Advanced Nursing Specialization is delivered synchronously via a web-based videoconferencing and teleconferencing system. Students will complete an Advanced Nursing Practicum (NURS 5805) requiring a triad relationship between the student, course leader and agency preceptor. One practicum placement will occur for each student, based on student's areas of interest and geographical locations. Students should not solicit their own placements.
Students are expected to complete all requirements within six terms (2 years) of continuous full-time registration. As an exception, students in the Master of Nursing programs can be admitted to the Flexible (Flex) Option of six additional terms of continuous registration (total of 12 terms, or 4 years). As this option is intended for working professionals, students admitted to the Flex Option will not be considered for financial support.
Note: students will not be permitted to change from the Standard Option to the Flex Option, and vice versa.
Please see our
Master of Nursing Frequently Asked Questions
for answers to some of our most common program inquiries.
Admission Requirements for Masters
Applicants for admission must be graduates of a recognized university, college, or institute as well as show evidence of scholarly achievement. Except where otherwise stated in the Admission Requirements of a particular program, degree students must have a four year bachelor's degree or its equivalent with at least second class standing (B) based on their last 20 half courses or equivalent.
For applicants from countries that follow a British-patterned grading system, please note:
Overall standings are normally reported in lieu of an average. The CGPA can be determined on the basis of annual or overall standings as reported on the transcript or degree certificate.
A minimum grade of B, or Second Class, Upper Division, is required.
The National Diploma and Higher National Diploma are not recognized for admission to a graduate-level program.
Be sure to include a copy of your institution grading scale when uploading your transcripts.
If in doubt, you may wish to order a WES International Credential Advantage (iCap) report from wes.org
An applicant holding a degree other than one in the discipline area to which admission is sought will be considered on the basis of courses taken and academic standing.
Meeting the minimum requirements does not necessarily guarantee admission. No candidate will be admitted unless the academic unit recommends admission. All applicants will be advised by the Office of Graduate Studies in writing of their admission status.
View English Language Proficiency Requirements
View Lakehead University Calendar Disclaimer
In addition to the general admission requirements for Master programs, the following requirements also apply for the Master of Nursing program:
Four-year Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree or its equivalent from a university of recognized standing with a minimum 70% average
Evidence of a commitment to nursing as contained in the student's
Curriculum Vitae
and
a
personal essay question
Proof of current registration “without restrictions” with the
College of Nurses of Ontario
or another jurisdiction in Canada
Two references (one academic and one clinical references) - the link will be automatically emailed to each of the referees you have identified in your application.
Academic Fees and Important Payment Information
General Information about University Fees
Graduate Tuition Fees
Convocation Fees & Applying to Graduate
Other University and Program Fees
Student Fee and Payment Information
Refund Schedule
Graduate Funding
At Lakehead University, we realize the importance of financial support for graduate students.
Therefore, financial assistance opportunities are available in several forms and are generally awarded to students by individual programs on the basis of academic promise and financial need.
The different funding options available include:
Graduate Scholarships, Bursaries, and Awards
Graduate Assistantships
Faculty Research Scholarships
For your convenience, a searchable database of graduate scholarships, bursaries, and awards is provided below
. Award eligibility, criteria, and application procedures for graduate funding is indicated for each award. Please use the general search tool to find available funding by program. Alternatively, you may also click the advanced search link to specify available funding by program level, award category and/or award amount.
Although financial support
cannot be
guaranteed to all graduate students in all programs, we encourage you to
inquire about financial assistance with your Graduate Coordinator in your program of study
. You may also contact the Graduate Funding Officer in the Faculty of Graduate Studies to learn more about your graduate funding options.
Conditions of Graduate Awards
Graduate scholarships
are based on academic merit.
Graduate bursaries
are based on financial need, although there may be a merit component to the bursary. Where the award designates that an application is required, only those students who have submitted the specified application by the deadline will be considered for those awards. Late and/or incomplete applications will not be considered. Only successful applicants will be notified.
Recipients of scholarships, awards and bursaries must be registered in order to receive funding. Graduate awards are applied to any outstanding balance on the student's account. Students are entitled to their awards only after their fees are paid in full. Only students with credit account balances will be refunded the balance of the overpayment. Overpayment refunds of these awards will be issued at the end of September, January and May each year.
The University reserves the right to make changes without prior notice to the terms, conditions and award values listed in this section and in the University Calendar.
View Lakehead University Calendar Disclaimer
The most up-to-date internal awards and applications are on our new award system
MyAwards
Graduate Studies Funding Database
Program Level
- Any -
Doctoral
Masters
by Title
Award Category
- Any -
Award
Bursary
Scholarship
Award Amount $
Select any filter and click on Apply to see results
How to Apply
The first step in the application process is to complete the online graduate studies application form.
After you have submitted the online form along with the required $125 CAD application fee, you will be provided with an online account where you can complete the remaining steps of the application process which include uploading the required supporting documents and monitoring the status of your application.
Apply to Graduate Studies
Official Transcript
Click here for information about transcript requirements
Proof of Degree
Click here for information about proof of degree requirements
Official English Test Results
(If required)
For information about English test results, please
see our Calendar
In addition to the general admission requirements for Master programs, the following requirements also apply for the Master of Nursing program with Advanced Nursing Specialization:
Four-year Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree, or its equivalent, from a university of recognized standing with a minimum 70% average
Evidence of a commitment to nursing as contained in the student's
Curriculum Vitae
and personal essay
Proof of current registration "without restrictions" with the
College of Nurses of Ontario
or another jurisdiction in Canada
Two references (one academic and one clinical reference) - the link will be automatically emailed to each of the referees you have identified in your application.
Graduate Studies Reference Form (2 references required)
An electronic reference form will be automatically sent by email to the references you identify on the Graduate Studies Online Application Form
This form is requested in support of the applicant's ability to undertake advanced study and research
Program Specific Supporting Documents
In addition to the general admission requirements for Master programs,
the following requirements also apply for the Master of Nursing program:
Four-year Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree or its equivalent from a university of recognized standing with a minimum 70% average
Evidence of a commitment to nursing as contained in the student's
Curriculum Vitae
and personal essay
Proof of current registration "without restrictions" with the
College of Nurses of Ontario
or another jurisdiction in Canada
Applicants to the Advanced Nursing Specialization do not need any previous clinical practice hours in order to apply.
Two references (one academic and one clinical) - the link will be automatically emailed to each of the referees you have identified in your application.
Applicants to the Master of Nursing should indicate their interest in the Advanced Nursing Specialization at the time of application to the MN program. Such applicants must submit:
A complete application package to the MN program with Advanced Nursing Specialization as the program of study; unofficial academic transcripts; curriculum vitae; statement of goals and intentions; two references; proof of current registration "without restrictions" with the College of Nurses Ontario.
A cover letter indicating interest in completing the MN Advanced Nursing Specialization
Use this MN Application Checklist
to ensure you have everything you need for a complete application.
Next Steps
Registration Procedures
Before Registering!
Check to
make sure all of your course selections are currently being offered
by referring to the
University Course Calendar
and the
University Course Time Tables
.
View Registration Regulations
View Graduate Course Time Tables
View How & Where to Register for Courses
Check Your Eligibility to Register
You should register as soon as you are eligible
Review the Academic Schedule of Dates
for registration deadlines & important dates
University Graduate Studies & General Regulations & Policies
View University and Graduate Study Regulations, Policies and Guidelines
Advanced Standing
Please see the Faculty of Graduate Studies Master's Regulations regarding Advanced Standing
Master of Nursing Program Regulations
In addition to
Faculty of Graduate Studies Master's Regulations
, the following regulations apply to students in the Master of Nursing program.
Registration
Students in the Master of Nursing program will normally complete a maximum of three half-credit courses (1.5 FCEs) per term (fall, winter, spring/summer). A student who wishes to take more than three half-credit courses in a single term may do so only if the student has:
at least an 80% overall average in the previous term, and
the permission of the Master of Nursing Graduate Co-ordinator. Students are not eligible to take more than three half-credit courses in their first term of study.
Clinical Practice Placement
The clinical practice placement (Nursing 5805) normally takes place after completion of the required courses and electives, and after all course grades are available. All students must show up-to-date documentation of immunization status, Basic Life Support Certificate, N95 mask fit, and Police Records Check with Vulnerable Sector Screening prior to clinical placement.
It is the responsibility of the student to contact the School of Nursing Clinical Coordinator at least 4 months prior to proceeding with the practicum placement, in order to ensure adequate time to plan the practicum.
Students must maintain at least a 70% overall Nursing average to proceed with the practicum placement. If a course must be repeated, it must be successfully completed before the student can proceed with the practicum placement.
The School of Nursing Clinical Coordinator will arrange one practicum placement for each student. Students should not solicit placements, and do not have the authority to approve their own clinical placements.
Safe Clinical Practice
Unsafe, unethical, or unprofessional behaviour may result in dismissal from the program. Refer to the School of Nursing Regulations.
Clinical Documentation and Other Requirements
Students should be aware that criminal reference checks and other clinical requirements must be completed well in advance of completion of clinical courses. Refer to the School of Nursing Regulations.
Minimum Satisfactory Academic Standing
General
As an exception to the Faculty of Graduate Studies Master's Regulations on minimal acceptable academic standing, graduate students must achieve 70% or higher in all courses in the Master of Nursing program. A score of less than 70% in any course will constitute a failure.
As an exception to the Faculty of Graduate Studies Master's Regulations, no more than one course (weighted either 1.0 FCE of 0.5 FCE) in a Master of Nursing program may be repeated/replaced.
Period of Study
Students in a Master's program are expected to complete all requirements within six terms (2 years) of continuous full-time registration. As an exception, students in the Master of Nursing programs can be admitted to the Flexible (Flex) Option of six additional terms of continuous registration, for a total of twelve terms (4 years). As this option is intended for working professionals, students admitted to the Flex Option will not be considered for financial support.
Note that students will not be permitted to change from the Standard Option to the Flex Option, and vice versa.
Apply Now
Request a Viewbook
Application Availability
Fall 2025 (September)
Open
Application Deadline - February 1st
Campus
Thunder Bay
Program Type
Masters
Routes
Course