URL: https://www.lakeheadu.ca/programs/graduate/programs/doctoral/psychology-clinical/node/7250

Psychology:  Clinical
Overview
Requirements
Fees & Funding
How to Apply
Next Step
The GRE (general and subject) admission requirement will be waived for the Fall 2025 intake.
As an exception to the general Doctoral regulations, applications to this program must be made by December 1st at 11:59pm EDT.  Only complete applications, including all references, will be reviewed.
Please see our Clinical program's
Frequently Asked Questions
.
The Department of Psychology at Lakehead University offers both MA Clinical Psychology and PhD Clinical Psychology programs, with the PhD built upon the MA program.
The PhD program is accredited by the
Canadian Psychological Association (CPA)
for a
six
year term until
2023-24
. The mission of the graduate clinical program is to pursue excellence in psychological research, professional education, and training, as well as public and community service. We are committed to fostering a community of intellectual excellence that promotes an evolving understanding of psychological science and the provision of high-quality graduate education and training in the profession of psychology. The program strives to develop and nurture skills within our students that are grounded in science, critical thinking, and ethics, so that they may serve as competent researchers, clinicians, and educators. We are dedicated to increasing the scientific understanding of the behaviour of individuals, groups, and social systems and to the application of this understanding to enhance the functioning and well-being of individuals, groups, and societies.
The program adheres closely to the scientist-practitioner model of training and practice in psychology. Specifically, we subscribe to the view that the practitioner who can critically evaluate these research findings will make the soundest contributions to society and the profession by supporting evidence-based practice. Similarly, a clinical researcher who is knowledgeable about best practices will make the most significant contribution to clinical research.
NOTE
: Students in this program are expected to complete all requirements within a minimum of nine terms (3 years) to a maximum of fifteen terms (5 years) of continuous full-time registration. Candidates must meet a minimum residency of nine terms, all of which must be consecutive.
Admission Requirements for PhD
Applicants for admission must be graduates of a recognized university and show evidence of scholarly achievement. Except where otherwise stated in the Admission Requirements of a particular program, students must have a Masters degree or its equivalent with an academic average as specified by the academic unit. An applicant holding a degree other than one in the discipline area to which admission is sought will be considered on the basis of Master's courses taken and academic standing.
Meeting the minimum requirements does not necessarily guarantee admission. No candidate will be admitted unless the academic unit recommends admission. All applicants will be advised in writing by the Office of Graduate Studies of their admission status.
View English Language Proficiency Requirements
View Lakehead University Calendar Disclaimer
Program Specific Requirements
In addition to the general admission requirements for PhD programs,
the following requirements also apply
:
The admission requirement into the PhD in Clinical Psychology program is an MA or MSc degree in Clinical Psychology with a completed master's thesis. See note below.
Besides official transcripts, a current CV and letters of recommendation, applications must include Graduate Record Exam scores for Verbal, Quantitative, and Analytical tests, as assessed within the past five years; and a detailed statement of interests and objectives. Subject GRE scores (Psychology) are also required in order to be considered for the PhD Clinical Program.
Applicants whose native language is not English
and
who have not studied in an English school system for more than three years will be required to present proof of English facility by achieving an appropriate standing in one of the following test:
the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) with a minimum internet-based score of 100, or a minimum computer-based score of 250, or a minimum paper-based score of 600 and a score of at least 5.0 on the Test of Written English (TWE); the Michigan English Language Assessment Battery (MELAB) with a minimum score of 90; or the Canadian Academic English Language Assessment (CAEL) with a minimum score of 80.
Applicants to the program should be aware that they may require a criminal records check in order to complete the practica and internship requirements for the PhD degree in Clinical Psychology.
NOTE
: Students entering the PhD in the Clinical Psychology field with an MA or MSc degree in Clinical Psychology from a university other than Lakehead University must meet all Lakehead MA in Clinical Psychology requirements including:
A master's level thesis
Completed an undergraduate or masters level course in Psychometric Theory on entry or make up the missing non-thesis courses in addition to their PhD course requirements. Students missing the Psychometric Theory requirement must complete as a non-credit course, Psychology 3015 before enrolling in
Psychology 6251
(Advanced Assessment Techniques).
If Psychology 5201 (or its equivalent) has not been completed during the student's Master's program, it must be completed during the PhD year 1 or 2.
The Graduate Studies Committee in Psychology, in consultation with the Director of Clinical Training, will review the equivalency of the applicant's academic background relative to the requirements for an MA degree in Clinical Psychology at Lakehead University (see below for details).
Where deficiencies are noted, the candidate will be directed, upon admission, to take the identified course(s) in addition to the course requirements of the PhD program.
Where deficiencies are noted, the candidate will be directed, upon admission, to take the identified course(s) in addition to the course requirements of the PhD program.
Applicants require a course in the historical and scientific foundations of general psychology. This requirement may be satisfied by an advanced level undergraduate course (e.g.,
Psychology 4611
History of Psychology). Students lacking a senior undergraduate course in the history of psychology prior to entering the PhD program can satisfy this requirement by taking a graduate level Special Topics or reading course in the history or psychology (e.g.,
Psychology 5731
Special Topics in Psychology).
View Calendar
Supervisor Information
It is recommended that applicants
review Faculty research areas and interests
to determine fit with research interests. Applicants may contact potential
supervisor(s) about their research and supervisor availability via email, however, Faculty are unable to confirm supervision prior to application review by the Admissions Review Committee.
Academic Fees and Important Payment Information
General Information about University Fees
Graduate Tuition Fees
Convocation Fees & Applying to Graduate
Other University and Program Fees
Student Fee and Payment Information
Refund Schedule
Graduate Funding
At Lakehead University, we realize the importance of financial support for graduate students.
Therefore, financial assistance opportunities are available in several forms and are generally awarded to students by individual programs on the basis of academic promise and financial need.
The different funding options available include:
Graduate Scholarships, Bursaries, and Awards
Graduate Assistantships
Faculty Research Scholarships
For your convenience, a searchable database of graduate scholarships, bursaries, and awards is provided below
. Award eligibility, criteria, and application procedures for graduate funding is indicated for each award. Please use the general search tool to find available funding by program. Alternatively, you may also click the advanced search link to specify available funding by program level, award category and/or award amount.
Although financial support
cannot be
guaranteed to all graduate students in all programs, we encourage you to
inquire about financial assistance with your Graduate Coordinator in your program of study
. You may also contact the Graduate Funding Officer in the Faculty of Graduate Studies to learn more about your graduate funding options.
Conditions of Graduate Awards
Graduate scholarships
are based on academic merit.
Graduate bursaries
are based on financial need, although there may be a merit component to the bursary. Where the award designates that an application is required, only those students who have submitted the specified application by the deadline will be considered for those awards. Late and/or incomplete applications will not be considered. Only successful applicants will be notified.
Recipients of scholarships, awards and bursaries must be registered in order to receive funding. Graduate awards are applied to any outstanding balance on the student's account. Students are entitled to their awards only after their fees are paid in full. Only students with credit account balances will be refunded the balance of the overpayment. Overpayment refunds of these awards will be issued at the end of September, January and May each year.
The University reserves the right to make changes without prior notice to the terms, conditions and award values listed in this section and in the University Calendar.
View Lakehead University Calendar Disclaimer
The most up-to-date internal awards and applications are on our new award system
MyAwards
Graduate Studies Funding Database
Program Level
- Any -
Doctoral
Masters
by Title
Award Category
- Any -
Award
Bursary
Scholarship
Award Amount $
Select any filter and click on Apply to see results
Required Application Documents
Supervisor Information
Interested students are encouraged to
contact potential supervisors directly
and before submitting an application for graduate study.
The first step in the application process is to complete the online graduate studies application form.
After you have submitted the online form along with the required $100 CAD application fee, you will be provided with an online account where you can complete the remaining steps of the application process which include uploading the required supporting documents and monitoring the status of your application.
Click here to Apply to Graduate Studies
After you have applied
After you have submitted the online application form, you can access your account
here
. Any change in your application status will be reflected in this portal.
Graduate Studies Reference Form (3 forms required)
An electronic reference form will be automatically sent by email to the references you identify on the graduate studies application form
This form is requested in support of the applicant's ability to undertake advanced study and research
Official Transcript
Click here for information about transcript requirements
Proof of Degree
Click here for information about proof of degree requirements
Program Specific Supporting Documents
(If required)
For a list of program specific documents, please see this program's
Additional Application Information
section (if required, see above)
Official English Test Results
(If required)
For information about English test results, please see our
Academic Calendar
Additional Application Information: Documents for Applicants Not Currently Enrolled in Lakehead University's MA Clinical Psychology Program
New (Nov 8, 2020): Update to Reference requirements:  In past application cycles, we have required 3 academic and 2 clinical (professional) references. To simplify our reference requirements, we will now only require 3 references.
The reference letters (3) should be from faculty or academic/professional
supervisors
with whom you have a history, such as someone you worked for as a student researcher, or who you have met with several times throughout a semester and therefore is familiar with your work. The goal is to ask someone who knows you well, and someone who can comment on the areas assessed (e.g., academic preparedness, oral and written communication skills, initiative, judgement, research skill, and overall academic ability). The referee will also be asked to comment on your professional suitability for clinical training (e.g., ability to function well under stress, sensitivity to others, awareness of interpersonal impact, receptiveness to constructive feedback, professionalism).
We strongly recommend that one of the references be from your thesis supervisor. References should not be from a family member or friend.
Applicants can choose to provide a fourth reference, focused only on professional suitability for clinical training, should they so desire. This fourth (clinical) reference is entirely optional.
The Statement of Interest Form
Within the application, you will be asked to provide your statement of interest. Task instructions: In 3,500 characters or fewer, please: State your research interests, clinical interests, and professional goals. Clarify how your interests fit with the focus of this program and potential research supervisors. Summarize any previous research experience, clinical training (if applicable), and work experience of an applied nature.
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
View Curriculum Vitae Notes
Official GRE Score and Psychology Subject Test Results
Click here for GRE and Psychology Subject Test information
Additional Application Information: Documents Required From Current Lakehead University MA Clinical Psychology Students
Progress Report
To be provided to the Faculty of Graduate Studies by your current Supervisor
Next Steps
Registration Procedures
Before Registering!
Check to
make sure all of your course selections are currently being offered
by referring to the
University Course Calendar
and the
University Course Time Tables
.
View Registration Regulations
View Graduate Course Time Tables
View How & Where to Register for Courses
Check Your Eligibility to Register
You should register as soon as you are eligible
Review the Academic Schedule of Dates
for registration deadlines & important dates
University Graduate Studies & General Regulations & Policies
View University and Graduate Study Regulations, Policies and Guidelines
Apply Now
Request a Viewbook
Application Availability
Fall 2025 (September)
Open
Deadline - December 1, 2024
The GRE requirement has been waived for Fall 2025
Campus
Thunder Bay
Program Type
Doctoral
Degrees
Doctor of Philosophy Degree in Clinical Psychology (PhD)
Routes
Thesis