URL: https://www.lakeheadu.ca/programs/graduate/programs/masters/engineering-mechanical/node/17225

Engineering: Mechanical
Overview
Requirements
Fees & Funding
How to Apply
Next Step
The MSc in Mechanical Engineering satisfies the demand in academia and industry for highly-qualified personnel in the field of Mechanical Engineering.
Lakehead University’s Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering (MSc-ME) program aims to foster students’ independent research abilities through a combination of course work and systematic research. This MSc-ME program provides a dynamic and unique curriculum to train graduates to tackle mechanical engineering challenges faced by industries and communities effectively and efficiently. Graduate students in the MSc-ME program will benefit from small class sizes, friendly work environment, and close supervisor-student interactions.
Current research areas include the following:
Mechatronics:
Smart systems and structures, modeling and control of electro-mechanical systems.
Vibration & Control:
System identification, chaotic vibration, random vibration, active vibration control of flexible structures, linear and nonlinear control, robust control, intelligent control.
Machinery Health Condition Monitoring:
Signal processing, pattern classification, fault detection in mechanical and electrical systems.
System State Prognostics:
System state forecasting, remaining useful life prediction, artificial intelligence, machine learning.
Design & Manufacturing:
Solid mechanics, FEM, composite materials, ultrasonic waves in QNDE, design theories, system optimization, advanced manufacturing.
Fluid & Thermal Dynamics:
Heat transfer, thermal systems design and optimization, thermoelectric technology, advanced thermal systems.
Alternative Energy & Powertrain:
Renewable and clean energy systems, biofuel, IC engines, emission control.
NOTE
: Students in this program must complete all requirements within six terms (2 years) of continuous registration
Admission Requirements for Masters
Applicants for admission must be graduates of a recognized university, college, or institute as well as show evidence of scholarly achievement. Except where otherwise stated in the Admission Requirements of a particular program, degree students must have a four year bachelor's degree or its equivalent with at least second class standing (B) based on their last 20 half courses or equivalent.
For applicants from countries that follow a British-patterned grading system, please note:
Overall standings are normally reported in lieu of an average. The CGPA can be determined on the basis of annual or overall standings as reported on the transcript or degree certificate.
A minimum grade of B, or Second Class, Upper Division, is required.
The National Diploma and Higher National Diploma are not recognized for admission to a graduate-level program.
Be sure to include a copy of your institution grading scale when uploading your transcripts.
If in doubt, you may wish to order a WES International Credential Advantage (iCap) report from wes.org
An applicant holding a degree other than one in the discipline area to which admission is sought will be considered on the basis of courses taken and academic standing.
Meeting the minimum requirements does not necessarily guarantee admission. No candidate will be admitted unless the academic unit recommends admission. All applicants will be advised by the Office of Graduate Studies in writing of their admission status.
View English Language Proficiency Requirements
View Lakehead University Calendar Disclaimer
Program Specific Requirements
In addition to the general admission requirements for Master programs,
the following requirements also apply:
Normal admission to the MSc-ME program requires a Bachelor's Degree in Mechanical Engineering or other equivalent four-year program, with at least a 70% average, or equivalent
A make-up period of study, as recommended by the Engineering Graduate Studies Committee, may be required where the student is deficient in background undergraduate level courses. Meeting the minimum requirements does not necessarily lead to automatic admission, but depends on the availability of places in the program and on an assessment by the Engineering Graduate Studies Committee of the applicant's aptitude for graduate studies and research.
Proficiency in the English language is also required (see
Calendar
)
View Calendar
Academic Fees and Important Payment Information
General Information about University Fees
Graduate Tuition Fees
Convocation Fees & Applying to Graduate
Other University and Program Fees
Student Fee and Payment Information
Refund Schedule
Graduate Funding
At Lakehead University, we realize the importance of financial support for graduate students.
Therefore, financial assistance opportunities are available in several forms and are generally awarded to students by individual programs on the basis of academic promise and financial need.
The different funding options available include:
Graduate Scholarships, Bursaries, and Awards
Graduate Assistantships
Faculty Research Scholarships
For your convenience, a searchable database of graduate scholarships, bursaries, and awards is provided below
. Award eligibility, criteria, and application procedures for graduate funding is indicated for each award. Please use the general search tool to find available funding by program. Alternatively, you may also click the advanced search link to specify available funding by program level, award category and/or award amount.
Although financial support
cannot be
guaranteed to all graduate students in all programs, we encourage you to
inquire about financial assistance with your Graduate Coordinator in your program of study
. You may also contact the Graduate Funding Officer in the Faculty of Graduate Studies to learn more about your graduate funding options.
Conditions of Graduate Awards
Graduate scholarships
are based on academic merit.
Graduate bursaries
are based on financial need, although there may be a merit component to the bursary. Where the award designates that an application is required, only those students who have submitted the specified application by the deadline will be considered for those awards. Late and/or incomplete applications will not be considered. Only successful applicants will be notified.
Recipients of scholarships, awards and bursaries must be registered in order to receive funding. Graduate awards are applied to any outstanding balance on the student's account. Students are entitled to their awards only after their fees are paid in full. Only students with credit account balances will be refunded the balance of the overpayment. Overpayment refunds of these awards will be issued at the end of September, January and May each year.
The University reserves the right to make changes without prior notice to the terms, conditions and award values listed in this section and in the University Calendar.
View Lakehead University Calendar Disclaimer
The most up-to-date internal awards and applications are on our new award system
MyAwards
Graduate Studies Funding Database
Program Level
- Any -
Doctoral
Masters
by Title
Award Category
- Any -
Award
Bursary
Scholarship
Award Amount $
Select any filter and click on Apply to see results
Required Application Documents
Although applications are accepted on a continual basis,
to be considered in the initial Admission & Funding decisions for the Fall (September) semester
, you are encouraged to
apply by FEBRUARY 1
.
Supervisor Information
Interested students are encouraged to contact potential supervisors directly and before submitting an application for graduate study.
The first step in the application process is to complete the online graduate studies application form.
After you have submitted the online form along with the required $100 CAD application fee, you will be provided with an online account where you can complete the remaining steps of the application process which include uploading the required supporting documents and monitoring the status of your application.
Click here to Apply to Graduate Studies - Winter 2024
After you have applied
After you have submitted the online application form, you will be provided with instructions by email on how to log in to myinfo, where you will be able to review and upload the remaining and required supporting documents.
References
References are optional for the course-based program. To remain competitive for a thesis-based program we suggest that you upload at least two academic reference letters in your application
Official Transcript
Click here for information about transcript requirements
Proof of Degree
Click here for information about proof of degree requirements
Program Specific Supporting Documents
(If required)
For a list of program specific documents, please see this program's
Additional Application Information
section (if required, see above)
Official English Test Results
(If required)
For information about English test results, please
see our Calendar
Next Steps
Registration Procedures
Before Registering!
Check to
make sure all of your course selections are currently being offered
by referring to the
University Course Calendar
and the
University Course Time Tables
.
View Registration Regulations
View Graduate Course Time Tables
View How & Where to Register for Courses
Check Your Eligibility to Register
You should register as soon as you are eligible
Review the Academic Schedule of Dates
for registration deadlines & important dates
University Graduate Studies & General Regulations & Policies
View University and Graduate Study Regulations, Policies and Guidelines
Apply Now
Request a Viewbook
Application Availability
Winter 2025 (January)
Open
International Applicant Deadline - September 16th
Spring/Summer 2025
Open
International Deadline - January 15th
International applicants are encouraged to submit a complete application by early December.
Fall 2025 (September)
Open
International applicants are encouraged to submit a complete application by early December.
Campus
Thunder Bay
Program Type
Masters
Degrees
Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering (MSc-ME)
Routes
Thesis
Course