URL: https://www.lakeheadu.ca/programs/graduate/programs/masters/psychology-psychological-science/node/7249

Psychology:  Psychological Science
Overview
Requirements
Fees & Funding
How to Apply
Next Step
The GRE (general) admission requirement has been waived for the Fall 2025 intake.
This application will close to Domestic applicants on April 1st. Only complete applications will be reviewed.
The Master of Science in Psychological Science is a research-intensive program that addresses all areas of psychology including biological, cognitive, and individual and social bases of behaviour. The Psychological Science curriculum is based on an apprenticeship model, which includes flexible core courses that are appropriate to a student's area of research.
MSc Psychological Science: Gender and Women's Studies Specialization
The Department of Gender and Women's Studies at Lakehead University is dedicated to furthering an understanding of the importance of gender as a category of analysis in scholarly inquiry. Through interdisciplinary instruction, students will critically assess the relevance of existing models of knowledge in reflecting gendered experience and scholarship.
The aim of the program is to encourage the development and integration of gendered teaching, learning, and research within the university community and the community at large. This Collaborative Master's program allows students to combine advanced disciplinary research with gendered scholarship from the interdisciplinary field of Gender and Women's Studies. Upon completion of the program, the degree awarded specifies the discipline of the participating academic unit and notes the Specialization in Gender and Women's Studies.
For additional information on the Interdisciplinary Graduate Specialization in Gender and Women's Studies,
please visit the Gender and Women's Studies website.
MSc Psychological Science: Gerontology Specialization
The Gerontology Program collaborates with five departments including Psychology, to provide students with an innovative, interdisciplinary learning perspective. Students have the opportunity to access multifaceted resources and work together with complementary disciplines.
Research and theory in Gerontology is reviewed, and the thesis or major project taken in the collaborating academic unit will have a gerontological focus. For additional information on the Interdisciplinary Graduate Specialization in Gerontology, please
visit the Gerontology website
.
Please see our MSc Psychological Sciences program's
Frequently Asked Questions
.
NOTE
: Students in these programs must complete all requirements within six terms (2 years) of continuous registration.
Admission Requirements for Masters
Applicants for admission must be graduates of a recognized university, college, or institute as well as show evidence of scholarly achievement. Except where otherwise stated in the Admission Requirements of a particular program, degree students must have a four year bachelor's degree or its equivalent with at least second class standing (B) based on their last 20 half courses or equivalent.
For applicants from countries that follow a British-patterned grading system, please note:
Overall standings are normally reported in lieu of an average. The CGPA can be determined on the basis of annual or overall standings as reported on the transcript or degree certificate.
A minimum grade of B, or Second Class, Upper Division, is required.
The National Diploma and Higher National Diploma are not recognized for admission to a graduate-level program.
Be sure to include a copy of your institution grading scale when uploading your transcripts.
If in doubt, you may wish to order a WES International Credential Advantage (iCap) report from wes.org
An applicant holding a degree other than one in the discipline area to which admission is sought will be considered on the basis of courses taken and academic standing.
Meeting the minimum requirements does not necessarily guarantee admission. No candidate will be admitted unless the academic unit recommends admission. All applicants will be advised by the Office of Graduate Studies in writing of their admission status.
View English Language Proficiency Requirements
View Lakehead University Calendar Disclaimer
Program Specific Requirements
In addition to the general admission requirements for Master programs,
the following requirements also apply
:
Applicants to the MSc and PhD Psychological Science programs with or without Collaborative Specializations should be aware that
THIS IS NOT
a degree that will lead to registration as a Psychologist or Psychological Associate in the Province of Ontario, or the title "Psychologist" in other provinces, and that this degree
does not
normally lead to direct admission to the PhD program in Clinical Psychology at Lakehead University.
MSc applicants must hold an Honours Bachelor of Arts or Science degree from an approved college or university in Psychology, or related interdisciplinary program, with at least a 70% average (B) based on their last 20 half courses or equivalent.
An undergraduate thesis (or equivalent research experience) is required for admission into the MSc Psychological Science program.
Students who have not completed a degree course in advanced statistics and experimental design will be required to take Psychology 4111 (Statistics for Psychology 3) in addition to the regular requirements for the MSc Psychological Science program.
Offers of admission may include any course prerequisites and/or co-requisites. Within the period outlined in the offer of admission, these courses must be successfully completed with a minimum grade of 70%.
Offers for admission and support will be made up to
April 1
. Applicants who have applied to several university departments may accept these offers up to
April 15
. After this date, however, offers will be made only to those applicants who clearly state that they are not committed to any other university department.
Graduate Record Examination (GRE)
General Test Scores are required before an application can be considered to the MSc program.  Besides official transcripts and letters of recommendations, applications must also include a detailed statement of research interests and objectives plus the name(s) of Psychology faculty for potential masters thesis supervision.
Applicants whose native language is not English and who have not studied in an English school system for more than three years will be required to present proof of English facility by achieving an appropriate standing in one of the following tests:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL)
with a minimum internet-based score of 100, or a minimum computer-based score of 250, or a minimum paper-based score of 600 with a score of at least 5.0 on the Test of Written Language (TWE); Michigan English Language Assessment Battery (MELAB) with a minimum score of 90; Canadian Academic English Language Assessment (CAEL) with a minimum score of 80
Applicants are encouraged to visit the Department of Psychology
MSc Psychological Science Frequently Asked Questions page
for detailed information.
View Calendar
Academic Fees and Important Payment Information
General Information about University Fees
Graduate Tuition Fees
Convocation Fees & Applying to Graduate
Other University and Program Fees
Student Fee and Payment Information
Refund Schedule
Graduate Funding
At Lakehead University, we realize the importance of financial support for graduate students.
Therefore, financial assistance opportunities are available in several forms and are generally awarded to students by individual programs on the basis of academic promise and financial need.
The different funding options available include:
Graduate Scholarships, Bursaries, and Awards
Graduate Assistantships
Faculty Research Scholarships
For your convenience, a searchable database of graduate scholarships, bursaries, and awards is provided below
. Award eligibility, criteria, and application procedures for graduate funding is indicated for each award. Please use the general search tool to find available funding by program. Alternatively, you may also click the advanced search link to specify available funding by program level, award category and/or award amount.
Although financial support
cannot be
guaranteed to all graduate students in all programs, we encourage you to
inquire about financial assistance with your Graduate Coordinator in your program of study
. You may also contact the Graduate Funding Officer in the Faculty of Graduate Studies to learn more about your graduate funding options.
Conditions of Graduate Awards
Graduate scholarships
are based on academic merit.
Graduate bursaries
are based on financial need, although there may be a merit component to the bursary. Where the award designates that an application is required, only those students who have submitted the specified application by the deadline will be considered for those awards. Late and/or incomplete applications will not be considered. Only successful applicants will be notified.
Recipients of scholarships, awards and bursaries must be registered in order to receive funding. Graduate awards are applied to any outstanding balance on the student's account. Students are entitled to their awards only after their fees are paid in full. Only students with credit account balances will be refunded the balance of the overpayment. Overpayment refunds of these awards will be issued at the end of September, January and May each year.
The University reserves the right to make changes without prior notice to the terms, conditions and award values listed in this section and in the University Calendar.
View Lakehead University Calendar Disclaimer
The most up-to-date internal awards and applications are on our new award system
MyAwards
Graduate Studies Funding Database
Program Level
- Any -
Doctoral
Masters
by Title
Award Category
- Any -
Award
Bursary
Scholarship
Award Amount $
Select any filter and click on Apply to see results
Required Application Documents
Except where otherwise stated in the admission requirements of a particular program, domestic degree students must have a four year bachelor's degree or its equivalent with at least (B) based on their last 20 half courses or equivalent. We recommend that International applicants have an overall standing of Second Class - Upper Division or higher.
Meeting the minimum application requirements does not guarantee admission. The Faculty of Graduate Studies will advise all applicants in writing of admission decisions once they are received from the program. Applicants are encouraged to regularly monitor their Lakehead University email and application portal for the most current information.
The first step in the application process is to complete the online graduate studies application form.
After you have submitted the online form along with the required $125 CAD application fee, you will be provided with an online account where you can complete the remaining steps of the application process which include uploading the required supporting documents and monitoring the status of your application.
Click here to Apply to Graduate Studies
After you have applied
After you have submitted the online application form, you can access your account
here
. Any change in your application status will be reflected in this portal.
Graduate Studies Reference Form
An electronic reference form will be automatically sent by email to the references you identify on the graduate studies application form
This form is requested in support of the applicant's ability to undertake advanced study and research
Official Transcript
Click here for information about transcript requirements
Proof of Degree
Click here for information about proof of degree requirements
Program Specific Supporting Documents
(If required)
For a list of program specific documents, please see this program's
Additional Application Information
section (if required, see above)
Official English Test Results
(If required)
For information about English test results, please see our
Academic Calendar
Additional Application Information
The Statement of Interest Form
Download Statement of Interest Form (PDF)
GRE General Test
For information about the GRE, click
here
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
For information about the CV, click here
Specialization in Gender and Women's Studies Form
To specialize in Gender and Women's Studies, you must complete the
Gender and Women's Studies Collaborative Application Form
(PDF Format) and submit it with your application
Next Steps
Registration Procedures
Before Registering!
Check to
make sure all of your course selections are currently being offered
by referring to the
University Course Calendar
and the
University Course Time Tables
.
View Registration Regulations
View Graduate Course Time Tables
View How & Where to Register for Courses
Check Your Eligibility to Register
You should register as soon as you are eligible
Review the Academic Schedule of Dates
for registration deadlines & important dates
University Graduate Studies & General Regulations & Policies
View University and Graduate Study Regulations, Policies and Guidelines
Apply Now
Request a Viewbook
Application Availability
Fall 2025 (September)
Open
International applicants are encouraged to submit a complete application by early December.
Campus
Thunder Bay
Program Type
Masters
Degrees
Master of Science (MSc) in Psychological Science
Master of Science (MSc) in Psychological Science with Specialization in Gender and Women's Studies
Master of Science (MSc) in Psychological Science with Specialization in Gerontology
Routes
Thesis