URL: https://www.lakeheadu.ca/programs/graduate/programs/masters/social-justice/node/30217

Social Justice Studies
Overview
Requirements
Fees & Funding
How to Apply
Next Step
The MA Social Justice Studies is an innovative, interdisciplinary program. The program allows students to pursue a 4 FCE course based degree or, with the approval of the Social Justice Studies Committee, complete a practicum, a creative project, or a research project in lieu of the final 1 FCE of coursework. The program prepares students to work, research and advocate towards a more socially just society which values equality, solidarity and human rights and recognizes the citizenship of each human being.
The program has three streams: an MA in Social Justice Studies, a Specialization in Social Justice Studies, and an MA in Social Justice Studies with a Specialization in Gender and Women's Studies. Within the MA they may choose the course stream, a research project stream, a creative project stream, or a practicum stream.
Students begin the MA program by taking one half-credit course in social justice theory and one half-credit course in research methods. Those enrolled in the coursework stream will choose a further six half-credit courses from the approved Social Justice Studies course list. Students enrolled in the research project stream, creative project stream and practicum stream will choose four further half-credit courses from the approved list. Project students will then produce a 40-50 page research project to replace one FCE. Creative project students will produce the project and an artist/project statement of approximately 20 pages which will replace one FCE of coursework. Practicum stream students will complete a 200 hour practicum with an approved social justice agency or non-profit organization and write a 20 page report detailing their work.
Students enrolled in the
Specialization in Social Justice Studies
will be required to complete one half-course credit in social justice theory, and one half-course credit in social justice-based research methods in lieu of 1.0 FCE elective in their home unit. The remainder of their courses will be completed according to the requirements of their home discipline/unit, with at least one piece of work that reflects social justice theory and methods. Students completing an MA in Social Justice Studies with a Specialization in Gender and Women's Studies will take WOME 5101 in lieu of the .5 FCE Social Justice Research Methods course and one .5 elective. Additionally 1.0 of their 3.0 FCE Social Justice electives must have women's studies focus.
Students doing a project or creative work when completing an MA in Social Justice Studies with a
Specialization in Gender and Women's Studies
will take WOME 5101 and the major research paper/project must incorporate gendered scholarship. The proposed topic must be approved by representatives of both Social Justice Studies and the Gender and Women's Studies Graduate Committee. The student must also be supervised by a Gender and Women's Studies approved member of the Social Justice Studies faculty.
Admission Requirements for Masters
Applicants for admission must be graduates of a recognized university, college, or institute as well as show evidence of scholarly achievement. Except where otherwise stated in the Admission Requirements of a particular program, degree students must have a four year bachelor's degree or its equivalent with at least second class standing (B) based on their last 20 half courses or equivalent.
For applicants from countries that follow a British-patterned grading system, please note:
Overall standings are normally reported in lieu of an average. The CGPA can be determined on the basis of annual or overall standings as reported on the transcript or degree certificate.
A minimum grade of B, or Second Class, Upper Division, is required.
The National Diploma and Higher National Diploma are not recognized for admission to a graduate-level program.
Be sure to include a copy of your institution grading scale when uploading your transcripts.
If in doubt, you may wish to order a WES International Credential Advantage (iCap) report from wes.org
An applicant holding a degree other than one in the discipline area to which admission is sought will be considered on the basis of courses taken and academic standing.
Meeting the minimum requirements does not necessarily guarantee admission. No candidate will be admitted unless the academic unit recommends admission. All applicants will be advised by the Office of Graduate Studies in writing of their admission status.
View English Language Proficiency Requirements
View Lakehead University Calendar Disclaimer
Academic Fees and Important Payment Information
General Information about University Fees
Graduate Tuition Fees
Convocation Fees & Applying to Graduate
Other University and Program Fees
Student Fee and Payment Information
Refund Schedule
Graduate Funding
At Lakehead University, we realize the importance of financial support for graduate students.
Therefore, financial assistance opportunities are available in several forms and are generally awarded to students by individual programs on the basis of academic promise and financial need.
The different funding options available include:
Graduate Scholarships, Bursaries, and Awards
Graduate Assistantships
Faculty Research Scholarships
For your convenience, a searchable database of graduate scholarships, bursaries, and awards is provided below
. Award eligibility, criteria, and application procedures for graduate funding is indicated for each award. Please use the general search tool to find available funding by program. Alternatively, you may also click the advanced search link to specify available funding by program level, award category and/or award amount.
Although financial support
cannot be
guaranteed to all graduate students in all programs, we encourage you to
inquire about financial assistance with your Graduate Coordinator in your program of study
. You may also contact the Graduate Funding Officer in the Faculty of Graduate Studies to learn more about your graduate funding options.
Conditions of Graduate Awards
Graduate scholarships
are based on academic merit.
Graduate bursaries
are based on financial need, although there may be a merit component to the bursary. Where the award designates that an application is required, only those students who have submitted the specified application by the deadline will be considered for those awards. Late and/or incomplete applications will not be considered. Only successful applicants will be notified.
Recipients of scholarships, awards and bursaries must be registered in order to receive funding. Graduate awards are applied to any outstanding balance on the student's account. Students are entitled to their awards only after their fees are paid in full. Only students with credit account balances will be refunded the balance of the overpayment. Overpayment refunds of these awards will be issued at the end of September, January and May each year.
The University reserves the right to make changes without prior notice to the terms, conditions and award values listed in this section and in the University Calendar.
View Lakehead University Calendar Disclaimer
The most up-to-date internal awards and applications are on our new award system
MyAwards
Graduate Studies Funding Database
Program Level
- Any -
Doctoral
Masters
by Title
Award Category
- Any -
Award
Bursary
Scholarship
Award Amount $
Select any filter and click on Apply to see results
Required Application Documents
Although applications are accepted on a continual basis, to be considered in the initial Admission & Funding decisions for the Fall (September) semester, you are encouraged to apply by FEBRUARY 1.
Supervisor Information
Interested students are invited to contact potential research or creative project supervisors directly before submitting their applications for graduate studies, but no applicant is required to contact supervisors before applying.
The first step in the application process is to complete the online graduate studies application form.
After you have submitted the online form along with the required $100 CAD application fee, you will be provided with an online account where you can complete the remaining steps of the application process which include uploading the required supporting documents and monitoring the status of your application.
Click here to Apply to Graduate Studies
After you have applied
After you have submitted the online application form, you will be provided with instructions by email on how to log in to myinfo, where you will be able to review and upload the remaining and required supporting documents.
Graduate Studies Reference Form (2 forms required)
An electronic reference form will be automatically sent by email to the references you identify on the graduate studies application form
This form is requested in support of the applicant's ability to undertake advanced study and research
Official Transcript
Click here for information about transcript requirements
Proof of Degree
Click here for information about proof of degree requirements
Program Specific Supporting Documents
(If required)
For a list of program specific documents, please see this program's
Additional Application Information
section (if required, see above)
Official English Test Results
(If required)
For information about English test results, please
see our Calendar
Additional Application Information
Statement of Interest
One page outlining your interest in the program as well as your potential research.
Gender and Women's Studies Specialization
Please complete the
Gender and Women's Studies Collaborative Application Form
(PDF Format
)
and submit it with your application
Next Steps
Registration Procedures
Before Registering!
Check to
make sure all of your course selections are currently being offered
by referring to the
University Course Calendar
and the
University Course Time Tables
.
View Registration Regulations
View Graduate Course Time Tables
View How & Where to Register for Courses
Check Your Eligibility to Register
You should register as soon as you are eligible
Review the Academic Schedule of Dates
for registration deadlines & important dates
University Graduate Studies & General Regulations & Policies
View University and Graduate Study Regulations, Policies and Guidelines
Apply Now
Request a Viewbook
Application Availability
Fall 2025 (September)
Open
International applicants are encouraged to submit a complete application by early December.
Campus
Thunder Bay
Program Type
Masters
Degrees
Master of Arts in Social Justice (MA)
Master of Arts in Social Justice with Specialization in Gender and Women's Studies
Routes
Course