URL: https://www.lakeheadu.ca/programs/other-programs/technological-education

Diploma in Technological Education
Education...It's in our Roots.
Lakehead University has a strong and rich history in delivering a high quality Teacher Education program. The Diploma in Technological Education program is designed for individuals with a passion for shaping the lives of others. Learn more about why Lakehead is your #1 choice for pursuing your Teacher Education degree.
Continue to learn more about the requirements for the program along with application details.
General Admission Requirements
Required Documentation
How to Apply
Safe Practice
Additional Resources & Links
General Admission Requirements
Applicants are required to have completed an Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD), or equivalent, plus a minimum of 5 full years of employment in one of the following trades or fields.
Applicants must have relevant professional experience, working in one of the following technological subjects:
Communications Technology
Computer Technology
Construction Technology
Green Industries
Hair Styling and Aesthetics*
Health Care
Hospitality and Tourism
Manufacturing Technology
Technological Design
Transportation Technology*
* If you are applying to Hairstyling and Aesthetics or Transportation Technology, you are required to submit a current Certificate of Qualification.
Please see the
Technological Education Program and Practicum Guide
.
Equity:
Mature, Indigenous Persons and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
Indigenous applicants may choose to self-identify their Indigenous ancestry on the OUAC application form in the field provided. Persons with a disability, who feel that they have been academically disadvantaged may outline reasons in a personal statement submitted to Enrolment Services - Undergraduate Admissions at Lakehead University. Persons with a disability must meet the minimum admission requirements and will be required to meet the same standards for progression and graduation as other students.
Required Documentation
Applicants are to submit the following required documentation as part of the application process.
Application and Application Fees (including the supplementary non-refundable fee of $60 must be submitted to the Ontario Universities' Application Centre)
Official High School Transcript and Proof of OSSD
(or equivalent)
Official Post-Secondary Transcripts
(if applicable)
Application Package
Video Submission
Text Submissions
Proof of Work Experience (See requirements as outlined by the Ontario College of Teachers in their
Registration Guide
)
Certifications**
Documents required as part of the application package is to be submitted via the
Supplemental Application Form.
*
If you worked for an employer or through a union hall, submit a copy of a signed letter on official company letterhead. It must be written by a supervisor familiar with your work. It must attest to:
The length of your employment, indicating start and end dates and whether the work was full-time or part-time
The nature of your employment (job description) providing specific statement of the knowledge and skills you used.
**
If you are applying to Hairstyling and Aesthetics or Transportation Technology, you are required to submit a current Certificate of Qualification.
How to Apply
The application for the Technological Education Diploma Program is available on the
Ontario Universities' Application Centre (OUAC) website.
Application Instructions:
Select the "Browse Programs" tab from the left hand menu. The program can be accessed by selecting "Lakehead University" under the Program Categories or by using the Program Code search tool. The program codes are:
Diploma in Technological Education - Thunder Bay: A82
Diploma in Technological Education - Orillia: A83
After selecting the program, you will be able to select your broad-based technological education subject area using the “Teaching Subject” dropdown menu.
Access the full Application Guide
Safe Practice
Students admitted to the Bachelor of Education program must maintain the high professional standards expected of all teachers during their placements. A Teacher candidate may be excluded or withdrawn from the placement when his/her performance is deemed to be unsafe. Unsafe practice is any situation arising from a Teacher candidate's interaction with students or colleagues which places these students, colleagues, or the candidate himself/herself at risk or harm.
Additional Resources & Links
Diploma in Technological Education Program Page
Lakehead University Bachelor of Education
Ontario College of Teachers
Ministry of Education