URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/undergraduate/accounting/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Bachelor’s
>
BS Accounting
PROGRAM DETAILS
4 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Looking to become an accounting professional? Do you aspire to optimize the financial outlook for organizations? With our online Bachelor of Science in Accounting, you can cultivate key expertise in accounting, along with an aptitude for critical-thinking and advanced communication and analytical skills. Topics of study include financial accounting, managerial accounting, and auditing. As a student, you’ll receive a solid foundation in accounting theory and practice as well as business, communications, and general studies.
This online bachelor’s degree in accounting online prepares you to serve day-to-day accounting operations and strategic financial planning to strengthen long-term organizational performance. Upon completion, students will be poised to begin careers in private, governmental and nonprofit organizations.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Business.
What You'll Learn
Apply the major concepts, skills and values of the accounting profession.
Communicate effectively to diverse audiences, purposes and situations through a variety of professional methods required in the field of accounting.
Use decision-support tools to solve problems and facilitate organizational processes.
Identify, analyze and resolve ethical issues related to accounting decisions.
Identify and analyze global business issues and transactions and apply the appropriate accounting technical skills necessary to address issues and record transactions.
Take the next step in your accounting career with a bachelor’s of science in accounting online from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Undergraduate Rates 2024 - 2025
$495
Per Credit Hours
$1,485
Per 3 Credit Hours
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Are you eligible for a scholarship or a grant? Check out all your options and see if you qualify.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
Online BACHELOR’S DEGREE IN ACCOUNTING Sample Courses
Coursework for your online bachelor’s of accounting covers the foundational skills you will need in accounting, in areas such as cost accounting, finance, federal taxation, auditing, accounting information systems, budget analysis, fiscal advising, and more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Accounting Major Courses
Course Title
Intermediate Accounting Theory and Practice
Federal Taxes
Accounting Information Systems
Auditing
Business Foundations Courses
Course Title
Business Analytics
The Legal Environment of Business
Operations and Supply Chain Management
Marketing Foundations
Applied/Experiential Learning
Course
College of Business Internship
OR
Directed Experiential Education
OR
Study Abroad
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your bachelor’s of accounting online? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process.
If you’re ready for a degree that can position you for your next career move, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH A BS in Accounting DEGREE?
Your JWU bachelor’s of accounting online positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in accounting. Graduates of this program have found employment at companies such as the following:
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Fidelity Investments
Ernst & Young
Deloitte
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in accounting. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.