URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/graduate/accounting/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Master’s
>
MBA Accounting
PROGRAM DETAILS
2 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Have you been thinking about taking your accounting career to a management level? Whether you are just breaking into the business or have several years of accounting experience under your belt, give your accounting career goals a competitive edge with a Master of Business Administration in Accounting. This program can help you develop the management and leadership skills you need to pursue management-level accounting positions within any industry.
Our online MBA program prepares you for the next step in your accounting career. Students will take classes in various business disciplines, including economics, operations management, business policy, and more. You’ll match theoretical knowledge in accounting, finance, management, and research with real-world project applications and techniques. Your instructors are industry leaders and skilled professionals with concrete experience in advancing their companies’ accounting and management practices. And most importantly, our program is designed to accommodate the schedules of working professionals.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Business.
What You'll Learn
Gather, interpret and analyze research to inform decision-making at operational and strategic levels of an organization.
Use advanced communication skills and awareness of cultural differences in global and domestic business interactions.
Analyze problems from a diverse perspective, propose effective solutions and evaluate the impact of executive decisions.
Assess and evaluate business entities taking into account cross-functional environments as they affect ethical decision making in domestic and global organizations.
Use applicable ethical and statutory regulations to make sound financial decisions based on current accounting standards.
Take the next step in your accounting career with an online MBA in Accounting from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Graduate Rates 2024-2025
$842
Per Credit Hour
$2,526
Per 3 Credit Hours
Scholarships Available for Eligible Students
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Learn more about how you may qualify for a scholarship, including our 20% Graduate Success Scholarship.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attendance—tuition, fees, books, supplies, room and board, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
Online Master of Business Administration - Accounting Sample Courses
Coursework for your accounting MBA covers accounting essentials, including auditing, taxation, accounting law, and more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Accounting Courses
Course Title
Advanced Auditing
Individual Taxation
Corporate Taxation
Law for Accountants
MBA Core Courses
Course Title
Global Economic Environments
Operations Management
Effective Leadership
Ethics, Corporate Social Responsibility and Law
Business Foundations Courses
Course Title
Business Fundamentals
Quantitative Methods in Business
NOTE: With regards to Business Foundation courses, upon receipt of your transcripts, your prior coursework will be evaluated to determine the ability to waive out of these two courses. If you need to complete one or both of the foundation courses, you may take these courses as part of your program or test out of these courses via exam. Your dedicated admissions associate will discuss with you the option that will work best for you.
In addition, please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your Master of Business Administration with a concentration in Accounting? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application and no GRE or GMAT requirements.
If you already hold an undergraduate degree and you’re ready for more, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH AN MBA in Accounting DEGREE?
Your JWU MBA with a concentration in Accounting offers the executive business competencies and strategic-thinking skills needed to pursue accounting leadership roles throughout the business world. Plus, it can help you take the next step toward earning your CPA designation. Graduates of this program have found employment in companies such as:
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Gray, Gray & Gray
Disanto, Priest & Co.
BDO
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in accounting. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Our MBA Accounting program alumni are accountants, auditors, financial risk specialists, directors, and more. Our program alumni work for top companies such as Amica Mutual Insurance Company, CVS Health Corporate, Bank of America, Defense Contract Audit Agency, and United Natural Foods, Inc., among many others.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.