URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/undergraduate/baking-pastry-arts-and-food-service-management/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Bachelor’s
>
BS Baking & Pastry Arts & Food Service Management
PROGRAM DETAILS
2 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Do you have a passion for delivering top-notch pastry and baked goods experiences to consumers? With our online Bachelor of Science in Baking & Pastry Arts & Food Service Management degree program, you can build on that passion with the right tools and skills in management of pastry and baking production and service. This bachelor’s degree in baking and pastry arts online can prepare you to bring the highest quality to consumers in restaurants, food and beverage retail and more.
Available to students who already have an associate degree in the Baking & Pastry Arts,
this program allows you bolster your credentials and earn your bachelor’s degree in as few as two years. If you have not completed your associate’s degree in baking & pastry arts but have an interest in food service management, our
Hospitality Management bachelor’s degree
may be the best option to help you achieve your career goals.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Business.
What You'll Learn
Apply the major concepts, skills and values of the food service management profession to address industry problems both locally and globally.
Communicate effectively to diverse audiences, purposes and situations in food service operations.
Use decision-support tools and technology to solve problems and facilitate organizational processes within the food service operation.
Comprehend and apply industry specific operational standards.
Analyze and interpret pertinent information when making decisions within food service operations.
Take the next step in your baking and pastry arts and food service management career with a bachelor's degree in baking and pastry arts online from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Undergraduate Rates 2024 - 2025
$495
Per Credit Hours
$1,485
Per 3 Credit Hours
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Are you eligible for a scholarship or a grant? Check out all your options and see if you qualify.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
ONLINE BACHELOR’S DEGREE IN BAKING & PASTRY ARTS & Food Service Management Sample Courses
Coursework for your bachelor's degree in baking & pastry arts & food service management online covers industry fundamentals, including food and beverage strategies and logistics, hospitality strategic marketing, advanced food service operations management and more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Baking & Pastry Arts & Food Service Management Major Courses
Course Title
Food and Beverage Technology & Application Systems
Food Service and Hospitality Strategic Marketing
Food and Beverage Strategies and Logistics
Human Resources Management in Service Organizations
Business Foundation Courses
Course Title
Accounting for Hospitality Service Organizations
Financial Management for Hospitality Service Organizations
Hospitality Law
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your bachelor's degree in baking & pastry arts and food service management online? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application.
If you’re ready for a degree that can position you for your next career move, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH A BS in Baking & Pastry Arts & Food Service Management DEGREE?
Your JWU online bachelor's degree in baking and pastry arts & food service management positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in baking and pastry arts. Graduates of this program have found employment in companies such as:
Disney
Marriott International
Aramark
Hilton
Seven Stars Bakery
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in food service management. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.
“I have so much joy and pride in being a student at JWU. Johnson & Wales has stood the test of time. If you are looking for an education that is tried and true and will give you the tools to go out and make the world a better place, I encourage you to enroll in one of the programs at Johnson & Wales.”
– Shannon Rhyne, '24
Read the Full Story