URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/undergraduate/bs-business-administration/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Bachelor’s
>
BSBA Business Administration
PROGRAM DETAILS
4 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Is a career business leadership calling you? With our online Bachelor of Science in Business Administration degree program, you can answer the call by developing the right business acumen in management, communications, strategic thinking, finance, marketing, and much more. Our program features a balanced curriculum designed to help you develop professional business competencies, analytical and critical thinking skills, and professional ethics to succeed in the global marketplace.
This Bachelor of Science in Business Administration program prepares you to go further with your current leadership approach or pursue a new leadership path in your organization or industry.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Business.
What You'll Learn
Apply the major concepts, skills and values of business administration.
Communicate effectively to diverse audiences, purposes and situations through a variety of professional methods within business administration.
Use decision-support tools to resolve contemporary business issues using ethical business practices.
Analyze the risks and opportunities of doing business in a global environment.
Take the next step in your business administration career with a bachelor’s of business administration online from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Undergraduate Rates 2024 - 2025
$495
Per Credit Hours
$1,485
Per 3 Credit Hours
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Are you eligible for a scholarship or a grant? Check out all your options and see if you qualify.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
Online BACHELOR’S OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION Sample Courses
Coursework for your BS business administration online explores essentials in business management and leadership, including managerial accounting, business analytics, organizational behavior, operations and supply chain management, and more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Business Administration Major Courses
Course Title
Organizational Behavior
Change and Innovation Management
Integrated Search Engine Marketing Campaigns
Workforce Planning and Deployment
Business Foundations Courses
Course Title
Business Analytics
The Legal Environment of Business I
Operations and Supply Chain Management
Marketing Foundations
Applied/Experiential Learning
Course
College of Business Internship
OR
Directed Experiential Education
OR
Study Abroad
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your online bachelor’s business administration degree? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application.
If you’re ready for a degree that can position you for your next career move, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH A BS in business administration DEGREE?
Your JWU business administration degree positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in business. Graduates of this program have found employment in companies such as:
Fidelity Investments
TJX
Wells Fargo
Truist Financial
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in business administration. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.