URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/undergraduate/business-studies/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Bachelor’s
>
BS Business Studies
PROGRAM DETAILS
2 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Why business studies? If you’re ready to take your career further, you have your answer – and we have the education to help get you there.
Designed for students who already have an associate degree or equivalent (60 credits)
, this online Bachelor of Science in Business Studies program allows you to complete your bachelor of business in just two years through immersive and challenging online coursework.
With our online bachelor of business studies program, you can cultivate key expertise in decision-making, interpersonal skills, problem-solving, HR, accounting, marketing, and more. Is business studies hard? It depends on you. This online business studies degree challenges you to take your business acumen to the next level, so you can perform at the next level in your career.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Business.
What You'll Learn
Apply the major concepts, skills and values of business administration.
Communicate effectively to diverse audiences, purposes and situations through a variety of professional methods within business administration.
Use decision support tools to resolve contemporary business issues using ethical business practices.
Take the next step in your business career with an online business studies degree from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Undergraduate Rates 2024 - 2025
$495
Per Credit Hours
$1,485
Per 3 Credit Hours
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Are you eligible for a scholarship or a grant? Check out all your options and see if you qualify.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
ONLINE BUSINESS STUDIES DEGREE Sample Courses
Coursework for your online bachelor's degree in business covers foundational aspects of business, including managerial accounting, human resources management, strategic management, principles of marketing, process and quality management, and more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Business Studies Major Courses
Course Title
Organizational Behavior
Managerial Technology
OR
Process and Quality Management
Business Foundations Courses
Course Title
Financial Accounting
The Legal Environment of Business
Human Resource Management
Operations and Supply Chain Management
Marketing Foundations
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Coursework for your online bachelor's degree in business covers foundational aspects of business, including managerial accounting, human resources management, strategic management, principles of marketing, process and quality management, and more.
If you’re ready for a degree that can position you for your next career move, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH A BS in business studies DEGREE?
Your JWU bachelor’s of business studies online positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in business. Graduates of this program have found employment at companies such as the following:
Amazon
Marriott International
John Hancock Retirement
Honeywell International
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in business. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.
“The Bachelor of Science in Business Studies program has deepened my understanding of human resources, marketing and analytics — all of which are essential to my ability to grow and contribute to my organization. I’ve gained proficiency in business technology critical to communicating and collaborating with partners in my workplace.”
– Jeffrey Adams, '24
Read the Full Story