URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/associate/business-administration/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Associate Degrees
>
AS Business Administration
PROGRAM DETAILS
2 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Is a business management acumen the next step in your career? Whether you are ready to enter a new field or break through to the next level of your career, this online Associate of Science in Business Administration offers the essentials you need to achieve your professional goals. This online business administration associate degree program can help you cultivate the key fundamentals of business management so you can support any number of industries and operational areas – from finance to HR to sales, among many other sectors.
Plus, after completing your degree, you can apply your credits toward any of Johnson & Wales University’s bachelor of science in business administration (BSBA) degrees, putting you that much closer to your goals.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Business.
What You'll Learn
Apply introductory concepts of accounting, economics, management and marketing within business settings.
Use decision-support tools to apply legal and ethical standards in business situations.
Use communication methods effectively in the workplace.
Take the next step in your business administration career with an online business administration associate degree from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Undergraduate Rates 2024 - 2025
$495
Per Credit Hours
$1,485
Per 3 Credit Hours
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Are you eligible for a scholarship or a grant? Check out all your options and see if you qualify.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
ONLINE BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION ASSOCIATE DEGREE Sample Courses
Coursework for your AS business administration online degree covers business management essentials, including finance, marketing, accounting, HR and more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Business Administration Major Courses
Course Title
Financial Accounting
Introduction to Business and Management
Finance
Human Resource Management
Organizational Behavior
Marketing Foundations
Communications Foundations Courses
Course Title
Rhetoric & Composition I
Rhetoric & Composition II
Communications Skills
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your associate degree in business administration online? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process.
If you’re ready for a degree that can position you for your next career move, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH AN online associate in BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION DEGREE?
Your JWU associate degree in business administration online positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in business management. Explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in business leadership, such as the following:
Transportation, Storage, and Distribution Manager
Administrative Service Manager
Office Clerk
Business Intelligence Analyst
Supply Chain Manager
Facilities Manager
Sales Manager
Cost Estimator
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.
“
““Between my active home life and full-time career, I wasn’t sure how I could make school work for me. I found that online classes fit right into my schedule. All of my classes at Johnson & Wales have been well supported; it has been easy to navigate and learn online. Once I receive my associate degree, I plan to earn my bachelor’s degree in Business Administration. I’ve been enjoying my classes and have never regretted my decision to give school another try!”
– Lisa Absher ’25, AS Business Administration