URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/charlotte-programs/sports-entertainment-event-management-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Bachelor of Science
Sports, Entertainment, Event — Management
Program Overview
Student Spotlight
Learn by Doing
Career Success
Courses
Alumni
Faculty
In this section
Start Your Future in Events
When the crowd cheers at a sports event or a concert hits its high note, the magic behind the scenes is your masterpiece. Your meticulous planning and coordination bring these unforgettable moments to life.
If managing a sports team, promoting a music tour or orchestrating a high-profile wedding excites you, a
JWU Charlotte
Sports, Entertainment, Event – Management (SEEM) degree can make it happen. You'll dive into the world of sports, entertainment and event management from day one. Our program, which uniquely merges these three areas into one comprehensive major, gives you a competitive edge.
Deepen your knowledge by choosing to specialize in one of the following:
Sports Management
Live Entertainment Management
Event Management
Located in Uptown Charlotte, our program offers unmatched access, connections and immersion. Learn from professors with industry connections who teach through the lens of employability. Leverage their networks for internships, jobs and hands-on opportunities.
Request Information
Loading...
Molly Svizeny
’
s Pathway to Internships
From internships at Madison Square Garden to Live Nation Entertainment, Molly Svizeny ’19 is getting the hands-on, industry-specific experiences she needs to prepare for her future career. Instead of only learning in the classroom, professors helped connect Molly to résumé-worthy opportunities in a variety of industries.
Learn by Doing
At JWU Charlotte, hands-on,
experiential education
is key to your learning journey. You'll access top-tier sports facilities, entertainment venues and event spaces, gaining a behind-the-scenes look at organizing large-scale events. Engage with industry experts and
JWU alumni
who will offer career advice and expand your professional network. Through internships and Directed Experiential Education (DEE) courses, you’ll enhance your résumé and capture the attention of recruiters.
Why Choose SEEM at JWU Charlotte?
Collaborate with industry giants. Past partners include NASCAR, Charlotte Knights and Live Nation Entertainment.
Plan and execute the annual
SEEM Forum for Professional Development
.
Gain real-world experience through internships.
Benefit from the mentorship of our highly qualified faculty.
Have opportunities to study abroad and broaden your global perspective.
Network with professionals in a variety of industries.
Earn industry certifications such as Trained Crowd Manager Certification through the International Association of Venue Managers.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Johnson & Wales Charlotte (@jwucharlotte)
Career Success with a SEEM Degree
Our SEEM degree prepares students to intern and work at a wide range of venues, companies and pro sports teams.
Our students have interned with:
Atlanta Hawks
Charlotte Hornets
Charlotte Independence
Charlotte Knights
ESPN Radio Corp.
Live Nation Entertainment
Madison Square Garden
MLB Texas Rangers
X Games
Our graduates have been hired at:
Las Vegas Motor Speedway
MKTG Sports Marketing
NBA Charlotte Hornets
NHL Carolina Hurricanes
Top Golf
United States Golf Association
Visit Charlotte
Sample Courses
Business of Event Management
Business of Sports
Concert Tour and Music Festival Production Management
International Sports, Entertainment, Event & Venue Management
New Media Literacy in Sports
Entertainment and Event Management Sponsorship
Sports & Entertainment Marketing
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
View the full course listing:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Advertising Manager
Agents
Brand manager
E-Sports Producer
Meeting, Convention and Event Planners
Reporters and Correspondents
Set and Exhibit Designers
Social Media Director
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Alumni Testimonials
From Student to Sales Star
“Going to JWU broke me out of my shell. I learned how to network and what questions to ask; I wouldn’t be where I am today without that mentorship. My biggest piece of advice is to invest in your professors, extracurriculars and volunteer opportunities. All the little experiences helped get me where I am today.”
- Samantha (Creech) Lester ’18, group event & suite sales account executive at the Carolina Hurricanes Hockey Club
From Intern to Senior Director
“JWU prepared me for my current career by providing professors who prioritize hands-on experience and building social capital. I work at Sports Biz Careers, a nonprofit founded in 2019 by two professors, Jeff Longo and Patrick Stack. I started out as an intern, but this organization and their mentorship transformed my entire career journey. I've been with Sports Biz Careers the past 5 years, where my passion for serving others and cultivating an enriching environment through our programs has only continued to grow.”
- Lana Truese ’20, senior director of programing and operations, Sports Biz Careers
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Jeffrey Longo
Associate Professor
Jeffrey Longo is an associate professor for the College of Hospitality Management at JWU Charlotte.
Sean Baldwin
Assistant Professor
Assistant Professor Baldwin’s research includes diversity in professional and college sports; academic support in college athletics; and closing achievement gaps in urban school districts.
Kimberly Rosenbaum
Associate Professor
Associate Professor Rosenbaum's areas of expertise at JWU include special event management, human resource management and food service management..
Related Programs
Hospitality Management
Throughout the Hospitality program, you’ll apply best practices in business management to address the unique opportunities and challenges within this dynamic field.
Marketing & Advertising
In the marketing program, you'll explore marketing analysis, strategy and communications, international selling, consumer behavior, brand design and so much more.
Business Administration
In this program, you’ll learn about every level of an organization — from accounting and human resources to marketing and business analytics.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Faculty Contact
Sunil Atreya, CHE
980-598-1524
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.