URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/charlotte-programs/fashion-merchandising-and-retailing-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Bachelor of Science
Fashion Merchandising & Retailing
Program Overview
Learn by Doing
Courses
Faculty
In this section
Elevate Your Career in Style
Fashion is more than just design and modeling; it’s about understanding what drives trends and what products should hit the shelves. Our Fashion Merchandising & Retailing program equips you with the skills to select the right looks, colors and styles to create a compelling merchandise mix.
At
JWU Charlotte
, you’ll delve into the economic aspects of fashion merchandising, learn to predict industry trends, and develop strategies for effective product display and sales.
You can dive further into an area of interest by specializing in:
Merchandise buying
Fashion marketing & visual merchandising
Graduates are well-prepared for careers in merchandise management, sales, retail management, buying, visual merchandising, fashion marketing, forecasting, blogging, promotion and product development.
Request Information
Loading...
Experience Fashion Firsthand
Our fashion program emphasizes
practical experience
. You’ll visit local boutiques, corporate headquarters and top shopping destinations. You’ll also have opportunities for internships with industry partners or to study abroad, enriching your education and expanding your professional portfolio.
Why Study Fashion at JWU?
Acquire hands-on experience in our cutting-edge Retail and Fashion Lab.
Explore boutiques, major retailers and brands in the Charlotte metro area. Students have also traveled to Atlanta, G.A. to tour the Merchandise Mart and Belmont, N.C. to visit the Textile Technology Center.
Connect with industry experts via guest lectures and mentorships.
Develop a comprehensive portfolio to highlight your projects and skills.
Sample Courses
Introduction to Retail and Fashion
The Textile Industry
Retail and Fashion Lab
Forecasting
Sustainability in the Fashion Industry
Retail Math
Strategic Planning in the Fashion Industry
Fashion Writing
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
Explore the full JWU Catalog course listing:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Merchandise Buyer
Social Media Coordinator
Brand Manager
Product Development
Visual Merchandiser
Showroom Coordinator
Sales Representative
Fashion Forecaster
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Laura Egeln
Professor
Laura Egeln, Ph.D., has more than 10 years of industry experience at Liz Claiborne, Inc. and Welcome Home as a marketing manager and merchandiser.
Fernanda Tate-Owens
Assistant Professor
Fernanda Tate-Owens has been nominated for a creative writing award, honored for her leadership and recognized as the author and designer of the first history book for an organization.
James Woods
Assistant Professor and Department Chair, Management & Marketing; Charlotte College Chair
James Woods emphasizes real-world learning and experiences both in- and outside of the classroom, encouraging his students to network with local entrepreneurs and leaders.
Related Programs
Business Administration
In this program, you’ll learn about every level of an organization — from accounting and human resources to marketing and business analytics.
Marketing & Advertising
In this program, you’ll explore marketing analysis, strategy and communications, international selling, consumer behavior, brand design and so much more.
Entrepreneurship
You’ll develop the skills to start a new business venture as a small business owner, revitalize an existing organization or become a corporate entrepreneur in an extensive variety of industries.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Faculty Contact
Laura Egeln, Ph.D.
980-598-3109
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.