URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/charlotte-programs/baking-and-pastry-arts-aas.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Associate in Applied Science
Baking & Pastry Arts
Program Overview
Sample Courses
Related Programs
Faculty Contact
In this section
Apply Now
Request Information
Visit JWU
Majors & Degrees
Minors
Dive Into the World of Baking & Pastry
At JWU Charlotte, the glass-fronted labs along West Trade Street turn class into a spectator sport. Pedestrians stop to watch students as they work on cakes, breads and confections — and pull finished pastries out of the oven.
Now, imagine you’re on the other side of the glass, becoming the baking professional you’ve dreamed about. JWU Charlotte’s two-year Baking & Pastry Arts Associate in Applied Science (AAS) program combines creativity with scientific precision to master traditional and contemporary techniques in artisan bread, pastries, cakes and plated desserts.
Our skills-based education melds hands-on artistry with menu planning, cost controls, food safety, and front-of-the-house skills. Through professional studies courses, sharpen your critical thinking, communication, and leadership skills. Complete an internship or study abroad option to apply your skills in a professional setting, build your network, and gain career-ready confidence.
Admissions is contingent upon meeting the
technical standards
for this program. Individual states may require specific licensing or professional certification in addition to earning a degree in order to practice in the field. For more information, visit the Catalog’s
Licensure & Professional Certification Disclosures
.
Request Information
Loading...
“You gain so much knowledge from one single class. Take a second at the end of the day to reflect and you’ll notice you’re a step closer to becoming the chef you want to be.”
Laura Ramos Martinez
Program Structure
Year 1: Focus on gaining fluency with the building blocks of pastries, breads, cakes and chocolates
Year 2: Build an understanding of advanced techniques and front-of-the-house skills; choose an internship or study abroad experience
Skill Development
Craft-based practical training
Menu planning
Recipe development
Cost controls
Food safety certification exam
Sample Courses
Principles of Cake Production and Design
Foundations of Baking and Pastry
Chocolate, Confections & Mignardise
Artisan Bread & Viennoiserie I & II
Plated Desserts
Advanced Pastry Applications
Artisan Cafe
CFIT Intermediate Internship
View the full JWU Catalog course listing:
Baking & Pastry Arts (AAS)
Career Possibilities
Bread Baker
Bakery Manager
Chocolatier
Cake Decorator
Pastry Cook
Bakery Owner
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Choose Your Baking & Pastry Adventure
Studying baking and pastry arts allows you to tap into your artistic, creative, and scientific side. There are so many ways to set yourself apart, whether you’re interested in becoming a cake decorator, a bakery owner, a food stylist or so many other options.
Careers in Baking & Pastry
RELATED BACHELOR’S DEGREE PROGRAMS
Applied Food Science
The Applied Food Science bachelor’s degree program combines the strengths of culinary arts and food science to prepare students for careers working in food product research and development, quality assurance and food technologist positions.
Culinary Nutrition
Position yourself on the leading edge of 21st-century food, health and social responsibility through JWU Charlotte’s Culinary Nutrition bachelor of science degree program.
Food & Beverage Entrepreneurship
The Food & Beverage Entrepreneurship bachelor’s degree program prepares students for careers creating and managing food and/or beverage-related small businesses and start-ups or for work within existing organizations as an advocate of innovation.
After completing your associate degree, continue your education by enrolling in one of the following JWU bachelor’s degree programs:
Applied Food Science (Charlotte only)
Baking & Pastry Arts (Providence only)
Baking & Pastry Arts and Food & Beverage Industry Management
Business Studies
Culinary Nutrition
Food & Beverage Entrepreneurship
Charlotte
Faculty Contact
Amy Felder, EdD, CEPC, CHE
980-598-1436
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.