URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/charlotte-programs/business-administration-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Bachelor of Science in Business Administration
Business Administration
Program Overview
Student Spotlight
Learn by Doing
Innovation Lab
Courses
Faculty
In this section
Customize Your Business Degree
Our Business Administration B.S.B.A. degree is designed for customization, flexibility, and discovery. You won’t just take classes — you’ll embark on a personalized journey that aligns with your unique career goals. With a broad range of courses, you’ll explore what interests you most about business and tailor your degree to match your future ambitions.
Charlotte, North Carolina is one of the fastest-growing cities in the U.S. and the nation’s second-largest banking hub, which offers you unparalleled access to Fortune 500 companies like Bank of America, Lowe’s, Honeywell, Truist and Duke Energy. Our campus puts you right in the middle of this dynamic environment.
From mastering core business functions like accounting, marketing, human resources and business analytics to building essential skills through interdisciplinary courses, we equip you with the tools to excel in any industry. You’ll learn how to lead organizations with confidence, communicate with executives and employees, and manage projects like a professional.
Request Information
Loading...
From JWU to the White House
Recent Business Administration grad Alijah Jamison '24 has a passion for public service. Not only did he serve as student body vice president and the Commuters Connect vice president at JWU, he also completed a prestigious White House internship in Washington, D.C.
Build Your Business Experience
Whether you master the marketing world, become an ace at analytics or help others through human resource management, the business world requires a variety of skills and experience. Interactive courses and projects, exciting internship opportunities and faculty with years of industry experience will help prepare you for your career.
In this program, you can:
Participate in
Directed Experiential Education
(DEE) courses, where you’ll spend a semester working on a project for a real company.
Intern at top companies and organizations — students in this business program have interned at the White House, the Federal Reserve Bank and more.
Learn from faculty who have years of experience as researchers, accountants, business owners and more.
Pitch your business idea in JWU’s Sharkfest competition for a chance to win a cash prize to invest in your business.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Johnson & Wales Charlotte (@jwucharlotte)
The Student Innovation Lab
In this hub for entrepreneurship, students learn how to create business plans, pitch to investors, analyze target markets and more.
Launch Experience
Sample Courses
Business Analytics
Operations & Supply Chain Management
Marketing Foundations
Human Resource Management
Finance
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
View a full JWU Catalog course listing:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Financial Analyst
Marketing Manager
Supply Chain Manager
Entrepreneur
Human Resourse Specialist
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
James Woods
Assistant Professor and Department Chair, Management & Marketing; Charlotte College Chair
Assistant Professor Woods’ career includes time in product development, business operations, and business development, as well as work in entrepreneurship and economic development.
Darin Spencer
Assistant Professor
Assistant Professor Spencer is a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) with significant professional experience in public accounting. He currently teaches finance and management courses.
Related Programs
Business Studies
In this program you’ll gain a broad understanding of current business practices and the effective organization of a company’s financial and human resources to prepare for long-term growth.
Entrepreneurship
You’ll develop the skills to start a new business venture as a small business owner, revitalize an existing organization or become a corporate entrepreneur in an extensive variety of industries.
Corporate Accounting & Financial Analysis
This program will enable you to hit the ground running in entry-level positions in auditing, accounting, banking, finance, and other management accounting specialties.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Faculty Contact
Charlotte
James Woods, Ph.D.
980-598-3123
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.