URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/charlotte-programs/culinary-nutrition-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Bachelor of Science
Culinary Nutrition
Program Overview
Learn by Doing
Nutrition Tour
Contact
In this section
Make Healthy Food Your Career
Do you want to become a chef with the foundational knowledge to make nutritious food taste great? Position yourself on the leading edge of 21st-century food, health and social responsibility through JWU Charlotte’s Culinary Nutrition bachelor of science degree program.
Gain the skills and expertise to meet the growing demand for healthy cuisine in restaurants, healthcare, athletics and other settings.
The program begins with a focus on the craft of culinary arts or baking and pastry, then introduces nutrition theories and culinary science. As you advance, you will learn about applied nutrition, lifespan nutrition and other specialized topics in a curriculum focused on improving the way people eat. You will then apply your knowledge in a advanced professional internship or study abroad experience.
When you graduate, you’ll be ready to create, modify, manage and prepare specialized cuisines in any arena where food and nutrition blend into a healthy lifestyle.
Admissions is contingent upon meeting the
technical standards
for this program. Individual states may require specific licensing or professional certification in addition to earning a degree in order to practice in the field. Learn more via the Catalog’s
Licensure & Professional Certification Disclosures
.
Request Information
Loading...
A Chicago Opportunity
Charlotte Culinary Nutrition major Mali Towe '25 recently won the RATIONAL/JWU Student Innovation Challenge, earning her a trip to the National Restaurant Association Show in Chicago. Here are her takeaways:
Mali’s Story
Build Your Skills
Coursework is stuctured to help you build your knowledge of nutrition theory as applied across the lifespan, while exploring traditional, alternative and specialized diets. Throughout the program, you will have multiple opportunities to expand and apply your skills, including:
Developing nutrition education programming for diverse communities and individuals across the lifespan, from infancy to older adulthood.
Creating recipes and menus focused on the prevention and treatment of chronic diseases.
Assessing dietary adequacy and nutrient composition of recipes and menus to meet health-oriented goals and federal dietary guidelines.
Learning culinary and baking techniques that focus on health and nutrient dense foods, while maintaining the taste and creativity of the food.
Evaluating and developing individualized dietary food patterns and menus for specific needs, including athletic performance, chronic disease prevention and vegan/vegetarian diets.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by UNC NRI (@unc_nri)
Sample Courses
Advanced Food Safety, HACCP & Special Processes
Applied Culinary Nutrition
Athletic Performance Cuisine
Therapeutic Cuisine
Community Nutrition
Food Science
Lifespan Nutrition
CFIT Advanced Internship
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits. View the full JWU Catalog course listing:
Culinary Nutrition (BS)
Career Possibilities
Athletic Performance Chef
Certified Dietary Manager (CDM)
Corporate Chef
HACCP-Certified Manager
Personal Chef
R&D Chef
School Lunch Program Chef/Manager
Worksite Wellness Manager
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Nutrition Faculty
Genny Komar
Associate Professor
Assistant Professor Komar’s teaching interests include the inclusion of basic culinary techniques and the intersection and utilization of these skills within nutrition.
Daina Soto-Sellers
Associate Professor
As a science-driven chef, Associate Professor Soto-Sellers is very passionate about science and experimentation in the kitchen.
Leslie Van Horn
Assistant Professor
Assistant Professor Van Horn’s teaching interests include medical nutrition therapy, lifespan nutrition, nutrition research and nutrition education.
Tour Campus with a Nutrition Major
Culinary Nutrition major — and Navy veteran — Nate Williams takes you on a tour of his favorite spots on campus, from his Food Science class with Chef Soto to outdoor spaces. Watch:
Faculty Contact
Jennifer Gallagher, CEC, MS, DWS, CWE, CHE, CDM
980-598-1479
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.