URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/charlotte-programs/food-and-beverage-entrepreneurship-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Bachelor of Science
Food & Beverage Entrepreneurship
Program Overview
Build Your Skills
Sample Courses
Lab
Contact
In this section
Apply Now
Request Information
Visit JWU
Majors & Degrees
Minors
Launch Food Products of the Future
Turning a product idea into a reality requires research, market analysis and a solid business plan. JWU Charlotte’s Food & Beverage Entrepreneurship bachelor of science program teaches you the skills to launch an innovative product or service in a food or beverage-related market.
JWU Charlotte’s bachelor of science program in Food & Beverage Entrepreneurship combines courses in entrepreneurship with traditional business classes to provide you with the skills and knowledge to start your own food- or beverage-related venture, join an emerging venture, or work as a corporate entrepreneur in related industries.
Work with expert faculty, as well as business and community leaders, to connect to the resources that will help support making your business ideas a reality.
Experiential opportunities both in and out of the classroom provide you with the practical skills to identify opportunities and solve the kinds of problems that you’d face in launching a business.
Individual states may require specific licensing or professional certification in addition to earning a degree in order to practice in the field. Learn more via the Catalog’s
Licensure & Professional Certification Disclosures
. Admissions is contingent upon meeting the technical standards
technical standards
for this program.
Request Information
Loading...
Food’s Next Big Idea
The Future Food All-Stars Challenge is an annual food entrepreneurship pitch competition that puts JWU Providence and Charlotte students’ culinary expertise to the test. CFIT Dean Jason Evans calls the challenge “great prep for real life.”
Ready, Set, Pitch!
Build Your Entrepreneurial Skills
Food & Beverage Entrepreneurship students have opportunities to learn from experienced entrepreneurs in and out of the classroom. Pitch competitions like
Sharkfest
and
Future Food-All Stars Challenge
enhance your coursework with real-world entrepreneurial experience.
In this program, you will:
Begin with an 18-credit core foundation in baking & pastry or culinary arts courses rooted in essential techniques and leadership in the kitchen.
Learn how to start your own food and beverage venture.
Gain an understanding of the process of developing your idea from concept to pitch.
Learn how to fund a startup and make connections with investors.
Market, test and launch your venture.
Sample Courses
Artisan Café (Baking & Pastry Track)
Contemporary Restaurant Operations & Management (Culinary Track)
Pitching & Planning New Ventures
Marketing for Entrepreneurs
Food Service Financial Systems
Change and Innovation Management
Culinary Operations & Facility Management
Entrepreneurship Seminar
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits. Explore the full JWU Catalog course listing:
Charlotte
Career Possibilities
Brewer
Food Truck Owner
Personal Chef
Restaurateur
Food/Beverage Marketer
Food/Beverage Business Owner
Food/Beverage Product Innovator
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
More than a Classroom
The Innovation & Entrepreneur Center is more than a classroom. Here, JWU Charlotte students regularly hear from outside speakers, including angel investors, experienced start-up founders and successful alumni. They also use this space to refine their products, conduct research and practice business pitches.
Featured Faculty
Fred Tiess
Master Instructor
Tiess is a classically trained, award-winning World Certified Master Chef. In addition to being a Master Instructor, he is the owner of Le Guild Culinaire, a publication venture, and F&B Resources, an entrepreneurial consulting service.
James Woods
Assistant Professor and Department Chair, Management & Marketing; Charlotte College Chair
Assistant Professor Woods emphasizes real-world learning and encourages his students to network with local entrepreneurs and leaders.
Raymond Zoller
Associate Professor
Zoller has more than 30 years of restaurant operations experience, including 10 years of culinary operations and more than 20 years of front-of-house experience.
Faculty Contact
Charlotte
Fred Tiess, ME, WCMC, CCA
980-598-1470
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.