URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/charlotte-programs/chefs-choice.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Charlotte Programs
/
Chef’s Choice
Chef’s Choice®
In this section
Community Cooking Classes
Chef’s Choice® recreational cooking classes at JWU Charlotte will help you sharpen your cooking skills, explore global cuisines and cook like a pro.
From knife skills to world cuisines, artisan breads to French pastries, there’s sure to be a class just for you.
Customized Corporate Experiences
From knife skills to world cuisines, artisan breads to French pastries, there’s sure to be a class just for you. Bring your team to the table and let JWU host your next teambuilding experience!
Hands-on Cooking
Our 3-hour hands-on cooking experiences, designed for groups from 12-20 participants, include two hours of cooking and learning under the direction of a JWU chef-instructor. Class is followed by a family meal served in the adjacent dining room.
Competitive Challenges
Let us customize your event by incorporating team cooking challenges, such as Mystery Basket or Iron Chef-style competitions. We will customize your event to suit your time and needs.
Food & Wine Pairing Dinners
Designed for 16 to 24 guests, this interactive food and wine pairing dinner is held in the Hance Auditorium Chef’s Kitchen. Watch and learn as our food and wine experts demonstrate, educate and entertain your guests!
Prices start at $200 per person. For availability and more information, contact Patricia DelBello
by email
or at 980-598-1431.
REGISTER FOR CLASSES
Contact
Chef’s Choice
Johnson & Wales University
980-598-1085
801 West Trade Street
Charlotte, NC 28202
Email
Toggle
Frequently Asked Questions
What is the Chef’s Choice class size?
Class size ranges from 12-18 participants. If your favorite class is sold out, you can be added to the waitlist.
When do you post the schedules?
Classes run from September through May. We post the schedules in August and early December.
Do I need to bring anything with me?
No, we supply everything. You can bring your own apron or purchase a Chef’s Choice apron for an additional $18.
What is the cancellation policy?
If you need to cancel, you will receive a class credit toward a future class with a 7-day advance notice. Credits must be used within one year. Refunds will be issued with a 14-day advance notice. JWU reserves the right to cancel classes due to insufficient enrollment.
What is the age requirement for an adult class?
You must be at least 16 years old to register for our Chef’s Choice cooking classes in Charlotte. We also offer classes for children and teens.
What is the dress code?
You’ll be working in a kitchen so dress accordingly. Flat, rubber-soled shoes (such as sneakers) are required. No open-toed shoes or high heels permitted.
What if I have an allergy or dietary restriction?
If you have food allergies, please be aware that JWU does not guarantee an allergen-free environment. Recipes may contain nuts, nut oils, shellfish, dairy, produce and other food allergens. Please notify us in advance if you have any dietary restrictions so we can make every effort to accommodate your needs.
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.