URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/charlotte-programs/health-science-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Bachelor of Science
Health Science
Program Overview
Combined Degree
Student Research
Science Lab
Courses
Faculty
In this section
Creating Healthier Communities
JWU Charlotte
students experience a truly interdisciplinary Health Science program, bringing together all of JWU’s curriculum resources while giving you flexibility to explore approaches to health and the healthcare industry. Gain knowledge that will help prepare you for an entry-level career in healthcare or for graduate studies in fields such as medicine, physical therapy, public health, occupational therapy or other healthcare-related studies.
Along with basic lab techniques, you will learn how to evaluate, present and analyze data while gaining the intervention skills set to examine populations, evaluate data, identify problems and develop solutions — all with a focus on taking care of people in a range of medical specialties. You are invited to present your findings to the public at our annual Student Research, Design and Innovation Symposium
JWU’s personalized instruction and small class sizes mean that you will work closely with supportive, industry-knowledgeable faculty who take a personal interest in helping you prepare for wherever your future takes you. Having developed close relationships with local organizations such as Atrium Health Carolinas Medical Center and Novant Health Presbyterian Medical Center, our faculty have the connections to introduce you to the field and can help you develop your research skills through directed learning — or even the experience of publishing your findings in scientific literature.
Request Information
Loading...
Continuing Your Education at JWU
Students can earn a combined
Health Science B.S./Public Health M.P.H.
in as little as five years at Johnson & Wales University. where you can complete your degree online and through virtual classes.
Qualified students can complete five core
M.P.H.
graduate courses
that will count toward their undergraduate Health Science degree.
Learn More About Our Combined Degree Program
How JWU Prepares You for the Health Sciences
JWU students are encouraged to become health scientists under the mentorship of research-focused and industry-experience faculty. This means having an opportunity to influence health at every level, whether working on health science projects at JWU or for local departments of health or medical centers. Students are encouraged to pursue their research interests, which might look like conducting lycopene research or working with an anesthesiologist to gain hands-on experience. In this program, you will also:
Become prepared for a career in healthcare or for graduate studies in fields such as medicine,
occupational therapy
,
public health
,
physical therapy
,
clinical nutrition and dietetics
, and
nursing
Learn how to evaluate, present and analyze data
Obtain the intervention skills set to examine populations, identify problems and develop solutions
Identify and complete a full-year research project, presenting your findings to fellow researchers and to the public
Apply free elective credit to options ranging from
Directed Experiential Education
to internships to study abroad
Be eligible for an accelerated pathway into JWU’s Master of Public Health program, which includes a Wildcat discount on tuition
Student Research in Health Science
Cancer Awareness & Detection
Health Science students Gabby Tully ’26 and Payton Abrams ’26 researched the advantages associated with early detection methods for colon cancer. Gabby and Payton note, “Through a multidisciplinary approach encompassing epidemiological data, sociocultural factors, and healthcare policies, this project endeavors to contribute vital insights toward optimizing colon cancer prevention and management strategies. Ultimately, our findings aspire to empower individuals and healthcare professionals in implementing effective interventions that foster early detection, thereby mitigating the burden of colon cancer on individuals and society as a whole.”
Undergraduate Research
“I chose to do research because of the high-level equipment we have in the labs. I have been working on isolating lycopene from tomatoes, and as I continue, I will work onto more complex compounds! I am very lucky to be able to have these opportunities in the College of Health & Wellness here at JWU, and I have loved every minute of it!”
- Trinity Knauf ’25, Health Science major
Science Lab
JWU Charlotte’s Science Lab offers the equipment and safety measures to conduct professional experiments and research pertaining to the health sciences, including a Biosafety Level 2 (BSL2) facility, gas chromatography (GC) mass spectrometer, Walkup NMR to automate nuclear magnetic resonance experiments, infrared spectrometer and more. Students can investigate conventional and real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR), cell culture, regular light, compound and more.
Launch Experience
Sample Courses
Introduction to Health Professions
Epidemiology
Research Methods for Health Science
Mindfulness for Health & Wellbeing
Data and Evidence in Health: Research Capstone
In addition to classes, free elective credits can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
View the JWU Catalog for a full course listing:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Anesthesia Technician
Cytotechnician
Clinical Nutritionist/Dietician
Health Education Specialist
Microbiologist
Physician’s Assistant
Public Health Specialist
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Christopher Roy
Associate Professor
Roy enjoys teaching chemistry courses at JWU. He held positions in teaching and research, including examining the isolation of anti-cancer compounds from marine organisms, at Duke University for 20 years.
Audrey Roberts
Assistant Professor
Audrey’s graduate research was in both microbiology and molecular biology, focusing on breast cancer research. She spent 16 years working and consulting in the fields of clinical molecular genetics, cytogenetics and molecular cytogenetics.
Related Programs
Public Health
Explore a holistic approach to health through courses in nutrition, exercise science, psychology, sociology, public health and economics, and discover its importance to patient-centered, humanistic healthcare delivery.
Accelerated Nursing (ABSN)
Our accelerated program is designed for individuals who already hold an earned bachelor’s degree or higher and wish to pursue nursing as a career.
Public Health (MPH)
At Johnson & Wales, we’re committed to offering a superior student experience and creating the pathways you need. Our on-campus MPH degree offers full- and part-time options to fit your schedule.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Faculty Contacts
Charlotte
Michael Childers, J.D.
980-598-3225
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.