URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/charlotte-programs/marketing-advertising-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Bachelor of Science
Marketing & Advertising
Program Overview
Learn by Doing
Courses
Faculty
In this section
Start Your Path to Marketing Success
Turning ideas into profit isn’t easy — but if you’re innovative and motivated,
JWU Charlotte’s
Marketing & Advertising program can show you how to transform your creativity into a career.
You’ll explore marketing analysis, strategy and communications, international selling, consumer behavior, brand design and so much more. Our experienced faculty and business partners will also work with you to build your own customized career path for you to pursue what interests you most.
When you graduate, you’ll be prepared for professional marketing positions in disciplines such as product development, digital marketing, sales management, consumer research, social media marketing, brand management and marketing analytics. Your options are as endless as your creativity.
Request Information
Loading...
“
My favorite thing about JWU is the ability to be a part of different organizations and create your own community within them. I have learned how to be a part of something so much bigger than myself.
”
- Madison Hernandez
’
18
Gain Real-World Marketing Experience
Opportunities exist for internships, externships or studying abroad. You can also gain real-world experience with
Directed Experiential Education
(DEE) projects, where students provide consultation for real companies to create new marketing campaigns.
Other ways to gain marketing exerience at JWU Charlotte, include:
Networking and learning from JWU alums
Earning industry certifications through coursework and LinkedIn Learning access
Learning from faculty who have years of industry experience
Sample Courses
Content Creation and Generative AI
Global Strategic Marketing and Advertising
Influencer Marketing
Market Research and Consumer Insights
Marketing Communications
Media Buying and Planning
Personal Branding and Portfolio Seminar
Social and Digital Media Marketing
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, Advertising Team or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
Visit the JWU Catalog for a full course listing:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Art Director/Copywriter
Digital Storyteller
Marketing Manager
Marketing Strategist
Market Research Analyst
Public Relations Manager
Social Media Manager
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Roland Sparks
Professor
Professor Sparks has 15-plus years experience in public management, project management and engineering. His current research focus is on marketing technology and ecommerce, international retailing, customer relationship management systems and international marketing.
Laura Egeln
Professor
In addition to leading JWU Charlotte’s Fashion Merchandising & Retailing major, Professor Egeln’s research areas of interest include consumer behavior in the apparel industry, online retailing and baby boomer consumer behavior in the online channel.
Related Programs
Business Studies
This program provides a broad understanding of current business practices and the effective organization of a company’s financial and human resources to prepare for long-term growth.
Media & Communication
In this minor, learn about the production and meaning of media — news, photos, film, music, television, video games and social networking sites — and how audiences respond to what they read, see and hear.
Entrepreneurship
In this bachelor of science program, you’ll develop the skills to start a new business venture as a small business owner, revitalize an existing organization or become a corporate entrepreneur in an extensive variety of industries.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Faculty Contact
Charlotte
Roland Sparks, DBA
980-598-3117
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.