URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/charlotte-programs/business-studies-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Bachelor of Science
Business Studies
Program Overview
Learn by Doing
Innovation Lab
Courses
In this section
Build on Your Associate Degree
Our Business Studies program at
JWU Charlotte
is designed for students who already hold an associate degree or equivalent credits. You can continue your education and earn a bachelor’s degree in just two years!
This program is highly flexible and provides a comprehensive look at current business practices and how companies can achieve long-term growth with the effective organization of financial and human resources. You’ll be prepared to succeed in many areas of an organization through core business classes and management studies.
You can also customize your degree by focusing on a specific area that suits your career goals, including marketing operations management, human resources, entrepreneurship and international business.
Our
College of Business
faculty bring years of industry experience to the classroom. They’ll apply the latest theories to real-world situations, show you how to use effective management techniques and engage your creativity with projects and case studies from real companies.
Request Information
Loading...
Why Choose Business Studies?
If you aren’t sure what to do next with your earned credits or associate degree, this program is a great option to continue your education and prepare for a wide variety of careers. Whether you’re already at JWU or transferring here from another institution, you can smoothly transition into this program and apply your credits towards a bachelor’s degree that compliments your associate degree.
In this program, you can:
Apply previously earned credits and/or an associate degree to earn your bachelor’s in as little as two years.
Learn from experienced faculty who have spent years in the industry as corporate consultants, managers, accountants and more.
Participate in
Directed Experiential Education
(DEE) courses, a semester-long experience where you’ll work on a real project for a company or organization.
Compete in JWU Sharkfest, our annual business pitch competition that awards cash prizes for you to invest in your business.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Johnson & Wales Charlotte (@jwucharlotte)
The Student Innovation Lab
In this lab, you can learn how to create and execute business plans, pitch to investors, examine target markets and more.
Launch Experience
Sample Courses
Business Analytics
Finance
Macroeconomics
Marketing Foundations
Organizational Behavior
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
For a full course listing, visit the JWU Catalog:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Entrepreneur
Operations Manager
Business Analyst
General Manager
Securities Trader
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Related Programs
Business Administration
JWU Charlotte’s B.S.B.A. program builds a solid business foundation by exposing students to relevant areas of accounting, economics, business law, finance, marketing and management.
Entrepreneurship
JWU’s Entrepreneurship B.S.B.A. program allows students the opportunity to study the management of small businesses, start-ups and intrapreneurship.
Corporate Accounting & Financial Analysis
This program will enable you to hit the ground running in entry-level positions in auditing, accounting, banking, finance, and other management accounting specialties
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Charlotte
Faculty Contact
James Woods, Ph.D
980-598-3123
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.