URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/charlotte-programs/food-beverage-industry-management-2plus2-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Bachelor of Science
Food & Beverage Industry Management 2+2
Program Overview
Learn by Doing
Sample Courses
Faculty
Contact
In this section
Apply Now
Request Information
Visit JWU
Majors & Degrees
Minors
Make an Impact in the Food Industry
Becoming a successful manager requires people skills, the ability to multitask and a deep understanding of the food industry. JWU Charlotte’s Food & Beverage Industry Management 2+2 bachelor of science program allows you to sharpen your culinary expertise while developing the business, managerial and critical thinking skills you’ll need to succeed.
The first two years build your foundation in
Baking & Pastry Arts
or
Culinary Arts
. Your third and fourth years integrate concepts in operations management, leadership, beverage appreciation, strategic marketing, and more.
Build Career-Ready Skills
Our program emphasizes the industry-specific business, managerial, front-of-the-house and leadership skills to expand your career prospects far beyond the kitchen. As you advance, you will gain the tools to run a food-related business — and in Advanced Food Service Operations Management, you’ll get to put those skills to the test.
Admissions is contingent upon meeting the
technical standards
for this program. Individual states may require specific licensing or professional certification in addition to earning a degree in order to practice in the field. Learn more via the Catalog’s
Licensure & Professional Certification Disclosures
.
Request Information
Loading...
Alums Pay It Forward
Carolina-based restaurateurs Jon Fortes '97 and Amy Fortes '10 try to hire JWU grads as much as possible — and are always looking to pay their JWU lessons forward. Amy notes, “The amount of detail that you learn, how in-depth JWU goes, has helped the food scene in Charlotte.”
Jon & Amy’s Journey to JWU
Learn by Doing at JWU
Build your career-ready skills in classes like Food Service Operations, Beverage Appreciation, Front of House Operations Management and Beverage Operations Management. Advanced Food Service Operations Management, also known as FSM4061, is where all those skills come together — student-led teams are responsible for designing the entire menu and guest experience.
Other opportunities for strengthening professional expertise include:
Taking part in a Directed Experiential Education (DEE) opportunity, internship or Study Abroad option, depending on available credits
Participating in annual competitions like the
Future Food All-Stars Challenge
Attending trade shows, conferences and thought leadership events
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Johnson & Wales Providence (@jwuprovidence)
Sample Courses
Advanced Food Service Operations Management
Beverage Operations Management
Financial Management for Hospitality Service Organizations
Food and Beverage Technology & Application Systems
Hospitality Law
Hospitality Strategic Marketing
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits. View the JWU Catalog link:
Charlotte
Career Possibilities
Beverage Manager
Food Service Manager
Catering Manager
Corporate Food & Beverage Operator
Food Service Revenue Manager
Hospitality Manager
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Food & Beverage Management Faculty
Sunil Atreya
Associate Professor and College Chair
Prior to joining JWU, Sunil Atreya worked in the hotel industry in a management capacity in both India and the US.
Piyavan Sukalakamala
Professor
Professor Sukalakamala is the first Charlotte faculty member to serve as a Fulbright Specialist Scholar. She has been instrumental in creating JWU’s Study Abroad program to Thailand.
How JWU Charlotte Shaped My Career
Christopher Williams '14 currently serves as the executive chef at Woodcreek Country Club in Elgin, South Carolina. But it was his undergraduate role as a teaching assistant that helped him grow into his chosen career.
“My experiences at JWU Charlotte shaped my future tremendously, personally, professionally and through networking,” he explains. “The ability of instructors within the culinary and hospitality program to keep their students fluent and up to par with trends gives us credible knowledge & skills that can still be used after graduation.”
A favorite class was Professor Sukalakamala’s Advanced Food Service Operations Management course: “She taught us about stock trading and networking, and it left a distinct impression, along with unreplaceable knowledge from professional tournaments such as The Masters, U.S. Open, and others.
“I would not exchange the lessons and skills I gained during my time at JWU Charlotte for any reason. I use those experiences to hone my abilities and dispense them to any and everyone who comes under my tutelage, thus hoping to leave a fraction of an impact to my peers that was left upon me by my amazing instructors.”
Related Graduate Programs
Clinical Nutrition & Dietetics
The innovative 16-month Master of Science in Clinical Nutrition & Dietetics builds upon JWU’s strong tradition in culinary nutrition and dietetics.
Food Innovation & Technology
This master’s degree program explores the complexities of a global food system and provides an opportunity for students to analyze the impact food has on people, industries and the environment.
Master of Arts in Teaching
JWU’s MAT program prepares graduates to apply for certification in the areas of elementary education/elementary special education, business education/secondary special education or culinary arts education.
Faculty Contact
Charlotte
Sunil Atreya, CHE
980-598-1524
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.