URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/charlotte-programs/hospitality-management-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Bachelor of Science
Hospitality Management
Program Overview
Student Spotlight
Learn by Doing
Labs
Courses
Alumni
Faculty
In this section
Turn Your Hospitality Dreams into Reality
Discover the world of hospitality at
JWU Charlotte
, where our Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management program goes beyond a traditional degree. We offer a comprehensive education designed to develop your management and leadership skills, equipping you to excel in the diverse and dynamic hospitality industry.
Customize your hospitality degree
by choosing from a range of electives. Mix and match to ensure your studies align with your career goals or select one of the following specialized tracks:
Food and Beverage
Hotel and Resort
Our dedicated faculty, industry leaders themselves, will guide you every step of the way. With strong faculty-student connections, you'll benefit from personalized support and mentorship. Start your journey at JWU Charlotte and prepare to lead in the global hospitality industry with confidence.
Request Information
Loading...
Leading at Luxury Resorts
“Outside of school, I work at The Ritz-Carlton, Charlotte as a guest relations agent. Over the summers, I work as a banquet supervisor at The Sun Valley Resort located in Idaho. JWU has played a huge role in these work experiences because my courses have helped me learn, grow and develop the fundamental skills I need to work in the hospitality industry.”
- Lilly Langevin ’25
Engage, Explore, Excel
Immerse yourself in unique and
practical experiences
that will set you apart in the industry. Our hospitality program integrates a variety of opportunities to ensure you’re well-prepared for your future career.
Why Choose Hospitality Management at JWU?
Tailor your studies with focused specializations in Food and Beverage Management or Hotel and Resort Management.
Explore hospitality first-hand through site visits to nearby hotels and private clubs.
Gain insights from faculty who are seasoned professionals, sharing their industry expertise directly in the classroom.
Take advantage of JWU’s vast network of hospitality connections, providing access to valuable internships and career opportunities. Students regularly intern at
Augusta National Golf Club
and Quail Hollow Club.
Develop leadership skills in our Hospitality Dining Room, where you’ll manage both front and back-of-house operations.
Study abroad experiences are built into coursework. Students have traveled to Morocco, Peru, India, Ecuador, Ireland, Portugal and Mexico.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Johnson & Wales Charlotte (@jwucharlotte)
State-of-the-Art Labs & Classrooms
Hospitality Dining Room
This classroom is set up as a real, working restaurant with a formal dining room and back-of-house kitchen. Students compose and prepare the menu, serve guests and take turns acting as restaurant managers to develop essential leadership skills.
Launch Experience
Mixology Lab
Features workstations for students to learn about modern bar service, develop recipes and practice making cocktails. These labs provide hands-on training in mixology and craft brewing.
Launch Experience
Sample Courses
Strategy and Improvement in the Hospitality Industry
Managing the Hotel Guest Experience
Hospitality Sales and Meeting Management
Hospitality Strategic Marketing
Technology in the Hospitality Industry
Beverage Appreciation
International Hotel Operations, Development and Management
Advanced Food Service Operations Management
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
View the JWU Catalog listing:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Resort Operations Director
Hotel General Manager
Food & Beverage Operations Manager
Hotel Sales and Marketing Manager
Guest Relations Manager
Destination Marketing Manager
Corporate Food & Beverage Manager
Tour Operations Manager
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
From Classroom to Corner Office
“
While classroom learning equipped me with essential skills in hotel accounting and formulas, it was the university's emphasis on values, professionalism and strict policies that instilled discipline and steered me in the right direction. Today, as the CEO of my own luxury hospitality consulting firm, I owe a debt of gratitude to Johnson & Wales University for its pivotal role in my journey.
”
- Jonathan Macioce ’08, chief executive officer at SKYBRIDGE Luxury & Associates
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Piyavan Sukalakamala
Professor
Professor Piyavan Sukalakamala organized the first Johnson & Wales student representation at hospitality venues for The Masters and US Open golf tournaments and created Study Abroad to Thailand.
Sunil Atreya
Associate Professor and College Chair
Sunil Atreya’s background is in hospitality and hotel management, including stints with Marriott and Holiday Inn. He is a Certified Hospitality Educator (CHE) from the Education Institute of the American Hotel & Lodging Association (AH&LA).
Emily Reaves
Instructor
Emily Reaves worked eight years in the hotel industry, having worked operations at properties including the Myrtle Beach Marriott, Wentworth by the Sea Marriott, and Providence Marriott Downtown and the Greensboro Marriott Downtown.
Related Programs
Food & Beverage Entrepreneurship
This program combines courses in entrepreneurship with traditional business classes. You
’
ll learn skills that will help prepare you to open your own venture, join an emerging food- or beverage-related venture, or work as a corporate entrepreneur.
Sports, Entertainment, Event — Management
Gain hands-on experience in sports, event and live entertainment management. Start major courses and industry engagement from day one, gaining early exposure and experience.
Entrepreneurship
In this program, you’ll develop the skills to start a new business venture as a small business owner, revitalize an existing organization or become a corporate entrepreneur in an extensive variety of industries.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Faculty Contact
Charlotte
Sunil Atreya, CHE
980-598-1524
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.