URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/charlotte-programs/corporate-accounting-and-financial-analysis-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Bachelor of Science
Corporate Accounting and Financial Analysis
Program Overview
Student Spotlight
Learn by Doing
Courses
In this section
Why Corporate Accounting and Financial Analysis?
The backbone of organizations, both large and small, are the accountants and financial analysts who possess the ability to interpret data and decipher business transactions. These crucial team members can comprehend and help others understand what the numbers mean so that firms can confidently make optimal decisions. Are you that future VIP?
JWU Charlotte’s Corporate Accounting and Financial Analysis program will enable you to hit the ground running in entry-level positions in accounting, banking, finance, and other management accounting specialties. You’ll be guided by professors with industry experience and professional certifications who will help you gain hands-on experience you will put into practice. You will also be encouraged to join and participate in meetings of the Institute of Management Accountants (IMA), networking with industry executives and participating in competitions and regional conferences.
With JWU’s location in the heart of Charlotte, the country’s second largest financial centers, you’ll have access to financial internship opportunities where you can jumpstart your career.
Request Information
Loading...
Student Spotlight: John Billinis
“I am a junior Corporate Accounting & Finance major here in JWU Charlotte and captain of the tennis team here. I transferred into JWU after my freshman year, and it is safe to say that I am loving it so far. JWU is a great place for connections! In my sophomore year, I had three internship opportunities, and in my junior year, I already have one. Not only that, but I am able to network with the different business events JWU has on campus — allowing me not only to succeed academically, but in my career as well.”
— John Billinis ’26
Putting Accounting and Financial Analysis into Practice
Throughout this program, you’ll have opportunities to step out of the classroom and into the real world — options include a
Directed Experiential Education
(DEE) or a College of Business internship in your choice of accounting or finance. Further strengthen your skills by participating in student competitions, attending regional conferences and competing for scholarships.
In this program, you will:
Select from a variety of accounting and/or finance courses to customize your educational experience.
Learn how to apply the major concepts, skills and values of the accounting profession while communicating effectively with diverse audiences.
Understand how to use decision-support tools to resolve contemporary business issues using ethical business practices.
Be encouraged to join the Institute of Management Accountants (IMA), attending and participating in meetings and networking with industry executives.
Have the chance to participate in events sponsored by the North Carolina Association of CPAs and other Charlotte-area professional organizations.
The program is designed to prepare you for a career in Accounting. Students are responsible for checking eligibility requirements for any professional licenses such as the Certified Management Accountant Exam (CMA) or Certified Public Accountant (CPA) license. Students who wish to pursue CPA licensure should research their state’s specific licensure requirements on the
National Association of State Boards of Accountancy
, as each state is unique.
Sample Courses
Financial Statement Analysis
International Finance
Spreadsheet Design for Business Solutions
Cost Accounting
Managerial Accounting
Intermediate Accounting Theory & Practice I and II
Business Analytics
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
View the JWU Catalog for a full course listing:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Budget analyst
Financial analyst
Financial accountant
Managerial accountant
Public accountant
Nonprofit accountant
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Dawn Lopez
Associate Professor
Lopez is an active member of the North Carolina Association of CPAs, the Institute of Management Accountants (IMA), and the Hospitality Financial & Technology Professionals (HFTP).
Mo Moshtaghi
Associate Professor
Moshtaghi’s business experience extends to the areas of controllership, management and marketing. He has acted as an accounting consultant to construction, real estate and development companies.
Marcia Vinci
Associate Professor
Vinci has held numerous positions in the areas of auditing, financial analysis, business systems analysis, controllership and academia.
Related Programs
Business Administration
JWU Charlotte’s B.S.B.A. program builds a solid business foundation by exposing students to relevant areas of accounting, economics, business law, finance, marketing and management.
Business Studies
JWU’s Business Studies curriculum builds on College of Business core courses to establish a broad overview of traditional business areas, including management, marketing and operations.
Entrepreneurship
JWU’s Entrepreneurship B.S.B.A. program allows students the opportunity to study the management of small businesses, start-ups and intrapreneurship.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Charlotte
Faculty Contact
Mo Moshtaghi, MBA
980-598-3118
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.