URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/charlotte-programs/culinary-arts-aas.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Associate in Applied Science
Culinary Arts
Program Overview
Learn by Doing
Sample Courses
Related Programs
In this section
Make Food Your Future
Learn the craft and art of cooking — backed by business and management skills, food safety, menu costing and teamwork. JWU Charlotte’s Culinary Arts associate in applied science (A.A.S.) degree program focuses on developing practical culinary craft skills, understanding classical and contemporary cooking methods, and building team-based leadership skills that translate to professional kitchens.
Cook with ingredients from a global pantry using high-quality ingredients from local farms and fisheries. Learn to develop recipes, implement cost controls, and earn a Conference for Food Protection approved Food Safety Manager Certification.
Hone your skills through competitions and skills classes. Take advantage of the RATIONAL FIT Speaker series, career fairs and other on-campus opportunities to network with industry leaders, employers and alumni.
Then apply all of these skills and experiences through a term of work experience at an internship site in your field of interest, a valuable opportunity to help you build your résumé and make industry contacts.
Admissions is contingent upon meeting the
technical standards
for this program.
Individual states may require specific licensing or professional certification in addition to earning a degree in order to practice in the field. For more information, visit the Catalog’s
Licensure & Professional Certification Disclosures
.
Request Information
Loading...
Lessons in Flavor & Business
Charlotte culinary nutrition students recently worked with Flavor Seed, a local organic seasoning company, as part of a Directed Experiential Education (DEE) course. “We’re helping to raise awareness about the brand as well as learning culinary and business lessons,” explains Sara Tweedle '23.
Learn by Doing
Build Career-Ready Skills
There are so many ways to put your learning into action, from internships or study abroad to competitions, skills classes or Directed Experiential Education (DEE) courses. Ways to maximize your experiences include:
Honing your professional skills in a fast-paced hotel, restaurant, country club, resort, casino or retail internship.
Gaining industry experience through
study abroad options
.
Pitching your food entrepreneurship ideas at SharkFest or the Future Food All-Stars competition.
Labs and Classrooms
Our labs are outfitted with the latest equipment, where you’ll learn advanced techniques in classical/international cuisines,
garde manger
, patisserie/dessert, and dining room operations — while developing proficiency in financial management and food safety.
Emeril Lagasse Kitchen Virtual Tour
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Johnson & Wales Charlotte (@jwucharlotte)
“I love witnessing the ‘a-ha!’ moment that a student has when they understand a new concept or technique.”
SENIOR INSTRUCTOR ASHLEY MCGEE
Sample Courses
Introduction to Culinary Skills & Techniques
Contemporary Cooking & Leadership Functions
Baking & Pastry Concepts for Culinary Operations
Banquets & Catering
Elements of à la Minute Cooking
Global à la Carte
Introduction to Menu Planning & Cost Controls
CFIT Intermediate Internship
View the JWU Catalog course listing:
Culinary Arts (AAS)
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
Career Possibilities
Executive Chef
Product Development Chef
Private Chef
Food Service Manager
Resort/Club Management
Sommelier
Restaurant Owner
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Culinary Arts Faculty
Ashley McGee
Senior Instructor
Most of McGee’s 12 years of restaurant experience was in fine dining and independent restaurants, including her own restaurant in coastal North Carolina.
Marcella Giannasio
Associate Professor
Giannasio’s passion for fine dining service and wine education, service and study led her to co-author “The Professional Server,” now in its third edition.
Brian Campbell
Senior Instructor
Campbell is an American Culinary Federation (ACF) certification examiner and holds numerous gold and silver medals for ACF hot and cold food competitions.
RELATED BACHELOR’S DEGREE PROGRAMS
Applied Food Science
The Applied Food Science bachelor’s degree program combines the strengths of culinary arts and food science to prepare students for careers working in food product research and development, quality assurance and food technologist positions.
Culinary Nutrition
Position yourself on the leading edge of 21st-century food, health and social responsibility through JWU Charlotte’s Culinary Nutrition bachelor of science degree program.
Food & Beverage Entrepreneurship
The Food & Beverage Entrepreneurship bachelor’s degree program prepares students for careers creating and managing food and/or beverage-related small businesses and start-ups or for work within existing organizations as an advocate of innovation.
After completing your Culinary Arts A.A.S., continue your education by enrolling in one of the following JWU bachelor’s degree programs:
Applied Food Science (Charlotte only)
Culinary Arts (Providence only)
Culinary Arts and Food & Beverage Industry Management
Business Studies
Culinary Nutrition
Food & Beverage Entrepreneurship
Faculty Contact
Jennifer Gallagher, MS, CEC, CWE, DWS, CDM
Associate Professor and Department Chair
980-598-1479
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.