URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/charlotte-programs/liberal-studies-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Bachelor of Science
Liberal Studies
Program Overview
Advanced Degree
Learn by Doing
Student Spotlight
Courses
Faculty
In this section
Prepare for a Variety of Careers
JWU Charlotte’s Liberal Studies B.S. degree provides the flexibility and independence to set your own curriculum, gaining valuable skills that will equip you to examine issues from multiple perspectives and solve problems in your future career. Critical and creative thinking leads to big ideas, and effective communication can bring those ideas to life. Our program is framed by Charlotte’s diverse, rapidly growing urban environment, which teems with opportunities to explore different paths within liberal studies.
If you are still narrowing down your academic options, Liberal Studies provides the freedom to explore multiple disciplines within
JWU’s College of Arts & Sciences
. Choose one of two concentrations: Arts & Culture, which could mean focusing on sociology, religion, art, literature, foreign languages and/or history, and Science & Society, which could mean studying biology, chemistry, physics, political science, economics and/or psychology. Our program’s free electives offer flexibility to customize your degree to fit your specific interests, while we encourage you to minor in one of several options including economics, psychology, media & communications, public health and more.
Request Information
Loading...
Continue Your Education
Students can earn both a B.S. and J.D. degree in just six years through JWU’s 3+3 Law Program, offered at your choice of either
Roger Williams University School of Law
or the
University of Massachusetts School of Law
. Or get your master’s faster through JWU’s signature accelerated master’s program,
J2
, by starting on coursework toward an online MBA or M.S. degree while still an undergraduate.
Why Study at JWU?
You will get to pursue coursework that interests you most, combining the depth and breadth of a liberal arts education with the
professionally focused training
for which JWU is known.
You will develop the skills to critically examine and interpret human complexities using the theories and methods of various disciplines in the humanities, social sciences and natural sciences.
You can apply your free elective credit to options such as a Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad.
You will learn to examine complex issues, analyze arguments, conduct credible research, solve problems, make ethical decisions and create original ideas/approaches.
How Kennedy Found Her Path Through Liberal Studies
“The JWU liberal arts program is where I found my life path. Before starting at Johnson & Wales, I went to two other colleges. I never could figure out what career I wanted to pursue and felt lost. When I started at JWU I went into the Liberal Arts program, as it allows students to take classes in multiple fields of study ... The professors are excellent and are always there for me when I needed them, which made it easier to decide what career I would pursue.”
– Kennedy Griffin '27
Sample Courses
World Cinemas
Introduction to Life Science
Food in World History
World Economic Geography
Culture and Food
Human Sexuality
Deviant Behavior
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
Explore the full JWU Catalog course listing:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Policy Analyst
Lobbyist
Media Relations Specialist
Anchorperson
Speech Writer
Nonprofit Organizational Director
Author
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Alana Dagenhart
Professor
A Fulbright Scholar award winner, Dagenhart studies how place informs poetry and how spaces of oppression can silence the voices of people of color and believes literature must be read in context of the greater historical framework that produces it.
Joan Geller
Associate Professor
Geller is committed to assisting students in polishing their presentation skills and reducing speech anxiety through Toastmasters, The Outstanding Speaker Competition and other avenues.
Mark Peres
Professor
Author, publisher and podcaster Peres’ community work focuses on nurturing creative capital, elevating civic discourse, and promoting intellectual and artistic excellence in the Charlotte region.
Related Programs
Psychology
Are you fascinated by human behavior? Studying Psychology is a great way to better understand yourself and those around you.
Media & Communication Minor
Whether your passion is film, music, television, news, photography, or any aspect of the media landscape, you’ll develop your skills under the tutelage of an experienced group of faculty.
Public Health
In our B.S. in Public Health, you will learn to assess and plan for community needs, exploring a holistic approach through interdisciplinary courses in public health, nutrition, exercise science, psychology, sociology and economics.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.