URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/charlotte-programs/hospitality-management-as.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Associate in Science
Hospitality Management
Program Overview
Program Benefits
Labs
Courses
Career Fairs
Faculty
In this section
Launch Your Hospitality Career
As one of the world’s fastest-growing industries, hospitality needs skilled leaders. Build your career-ready skills from day one with JWU Charlotte’s associate degree in Hospitality Management.*
Gain a broad understanding of the hospitality industry, including hotel and restaurant operations, customer service and event planning. Major courses educate you in industry-focused topics like technology, tourism and sustainability, managing the hotel guest experience, and much more. Further expand your expertise through electives — you can even choose options outside your major. Connect to industry expertise through site visits, networking panels and twice-yearly career fairs.
Upon completing your associate degree, you can seamlessly transition to our bachelor’s degree in
Hospitality Management
.
* Note that North Carolina state licensure is pending for this program in Charlotte.
Admissions is contingent upon meeting the technical standards for this program. Learn more by visiting the JWU Catalog’s
technical standards
.
Request Information
Loading...
The World of Private Clubs
Four JWU Charlotte Hospitality Management students headed to the Club Management Association of America (CMAA) World Conference and Business Expo in San Diego to learn more about the world of private clubs and club management. Read about their experience:
Club Management Options
Explore Our Flexible Curriculum
Flexibility is built into the curriculum, enabling you to mix core hospitality electives with 9 credits of free electives. Core topics include food culture and tourism, food service operations, event management and private clubs, while free elective options encompass communications, sociology, media & communications, and more. (Your advisor will be able to keep you on track with any prerequisites and required courses.)
The Benefits of Studying Hospitality at JWU Charlotte
Take advantage of JWU Charlotte’s vast network of hospitality connections, providing access to valuable internships and career opportunities. Students regularly intern at events like the
Augusta National Golf Tournament
and at private clubs like Quail Hollow.
Develop leadership skills in our Hospitality Dining Room and the Mixology Lab.
Gain insights from faculty who are seasoned professionals, sharing their industry expertise directly in the classroom.
The Spring Expo gives you the opportunity to network with local employers.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Johnson & Wales Charlotte (@jwucharlotte)
Hospitality Labs & Classrooms
Hospitality Dining Room
This classroom is set up as a real, working restaurant with a formal dining room and back-of-house kitchen. Students compose and prepare the menu, serve guests and take turns acting as restaurant managers to develop essential leadership skills.
Launch Experience
Mixology Lab
This fully modernized lab features workstations for students to learn about bar service, develop recipes and practice making cocktails. These labs provide hands-on training in mixology and craft brewing.
Launch Experience
Sample Courses
Beverage Appreciation
Food Service in Hospitality and Tourism
Foundations of Leadership Studies
Hospitality Sales and Meeting Management
Managing the Hotel Guest Experience
Technology in the Hospitality Industry
The Business of Event Management
World Geography for Tourism and Hospitality
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits. View the full JWU Catalog listing:
Hospitality Management
Careers
Private Club Manager
Restaurant General Manager
Food Service Manager
Hotel Assistant Manager
Meeting, Convention and Event Planner
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Sunil Atreya
Associate Professor and College Chair
Atreya’s background is in hospitality and hotel management, including stints with Marriott and Holiday Inn. He is a Certified Hospitality Educator (CHE) from the Education Institute of the American Hotel & Lodging Association (AH&LA).
Piyavan Sukalakamala
Professor
Professor Sukalakamala organized the first JWU student representation at hospitality venues for The Masters and US Open golf tournaments and created Study Abroad to Thailand.
Emily Reaves
Instructor
Reaves has extensive experience in the hotel industry, having worked operations at the Myrtle Beach Marriott, Wentworth by the Sea Marriott, and Providence Marriott Downtown and the Greensboro Marriott Downtown.
Related Programs
Hospitality Management
Our Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management is a gateway to a dynamic career where each interaction becomes an opportunity to craft unforgettable experiences.
Sports, Entertainment, Event — Management
If managing a sports team, promoting a music tour or orchestrating a high-profile wedding excites you, JWU Charlotte’s SEEM degree can make it happen.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Faculty Contact
Charlotte
Sunil Atreya, CHE
980-598-1524
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.