URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/charlotte-programs/applied-food-science-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Bachelor of Science
Applied Food Science
Program Overview
Unique to JWU
Sample Courses
How to Apply
In this section
Use Science to Improve Food Products
Imagine turning salmon scraps into an
innovative new product
or reverse-engineering an existing product in a food science lab.
JWU Charlotte’s Applied Food Science bachelor’s degree combines the strength of culinary arts and food science to prepare students for careers in food product research and development (R&D), quality assurance and food technology.
Learn about food safety, fermentation science, and other factors crucial for work in food processing. Through lab work, learn strategies for enhancing existing products and creating new ones using knowledge of food chemistry, microbiology, analytical testing methods and consumer sensory evaluation.
Learn in North Carolina’s Food Innovation Hub
JWU Charlotte’s program is situated in North Carolina’s growing
food innovation hub
, the fourth largest in the U.S. Our students have put their ideas into practice at the N.C. Food Innovation Lab (NCFIL), McClancy Foods & Flavors, Acme Smoked Fish, and more.
Individual states may require specific licensing or professional certification in addition to earning a degree in order to practice in the field. Learn more via the Catalog’s
Licensure & Professional Certification Disclosures
. Admissions is contingent upon meeting the
technical standards
for this program.
Request Information
Loading...
Plant-Based Futures
Chris Patillo '21 and Emilize Momplaisir '21 landed internships at the North Carolina Food Innovation Lab (NCFIL), a Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) facility accelerating plant-based food research. Read about their projects:
Accelerating Plant-Based Product Innovation
“I can’t tell you how great [our] JWU interns have been. They already have the tools to know about food safety and preparation, production and sanitation.”
Cindy Calhoun, North Carolina Food Innovation Lab (NCFIL) Senior Food Scientist
Why JWU Charlotte’s Applied Food Science Program Is Unique
Start by completing a two-year degree in either culinary arts or baking & pastry arts before
applying
to the two-year food science program.
Through Applied Food Science coursework, build your understanding of every step involved in creating new food products, from concept to product optimization. You’ll learn in classrooms and labs focusing on the core competencies prescribed by the Institute of Food Technologists: food chemistry and analysis, food safety and microbiology, food processing and engineering, and applied food science.
As you advance, you will learn to:
Apply food chemistry and scientific principles to the development of food products.
Apply principles of food technology and processing in food systems.
Apply food safety and microbiological knowledge to identify and solve problems related to food and food products.
Sample Courses
Fermentation Science & Functional Foods
Food Ingredients & Formulations
Food Quality Assurance
General Microbiology
Principles of Food Microbiology & Lab
Principles of Food Processing
Product Research & Development
Sensory Analysis
View the full JWU Catalog course listing:
Applied Food Science
Career Possibilities
Food Scientist
Food Product Researcher
Research & Development (R&D) Scientist
Food Technologist
Sensory Scientist
Food Quality Assurance Manager
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Toggle
How to Apply to the Program
How to Apply
All students interested in entering the Applied Food Science degree program must complete and submit an application to the program lead faculty member, Professor Robert Lothrop.
APPLICATION (166K PDF)
FACULTY RECOMMENDATION FORM (130K PDF)
APPLICATION CHECKLIST (100K PDF)
Toggle
Application Requirements
Applications will be accepted from Culinary Arts and Baking & Pastry Arts A.S./A.O.S./A.A.S. degree holders and students transferring from other culinary, baking or food science programs that meet JWU’s academic requirements. All applicants are required to submit the following items:
Application
Resume
3 recommendation forms
• 2 from chef, nutrition or food science instructors
• 1 from academic instructor
Change of Status form: Only needs to be filled out by currently enrolled JWU students.
Interview: Telephone interview to be scheduled by program director.
Student Degree Progress: Indicating a 3.0 GPA or Higher in current program. Currently enrolled students can obtain their audit from the Grad Planning System (GPS) through jwuLink. Students applying from outside of JWU will need an official transcript.
Questions about your application?
Contact:
Robert Lothrop, PhD
, professor, 980-598-1535
Sunil Atreya
, associate professor and college chair, 980-598-1524
Note:
Students are encouraged to refer to the graduation requirements of the Applied Food Science program by reviewing the catalog description or by contacting SAS (or the Admissions department if you are transferring from another institution). This will prevent any unforeseen complications or delays when applying to this program.
Faculty Contact
Charlotte
Robert Lothrop, PhD
980-598-1535
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.