URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/charlotte-programs/entrepreneurship-bsba.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Bachelor of Science in Business Administration
Entrepreneurship
Program Overview
Student Spotlight
Learn by Doing
Lab
Courses
Faculty
In this section
Prepare for a Successful Business
When pursuing your B.S.B.A. in Entrepreneurship at
JWU Charlotte
, you’re considered a business student — meaning you’ll be grounded in all aspects of business including marketing, management, finance, accounting, human resources and more. This knowledge will give you the foundation to build and run your business, whether you’re providing personal chef and catering, digital marketing services or anything in between!
In addition to learning how to develop, prototype, test and launch your business venture, you will also develop employer-sought soft skills including problem-solving, innovation and adaptability. Throughout the Entrepreneurship program, you will have the opportunity to network with established entrepreneurship and business leaders, becoming part of Charlotte’s local entrepreneurship ecosystem.
At Sharkfest, JWU’s annual entrepreneurial competition, you can pitch business ideas to a panel of industry professionals, competing for seed money to develop your business. You will also present your business ideas in a trade show setting at JWU’s annual Entrepreneurship Senior Capstone Expo and are invited to present in our annual
Student Research, Design and Innovation Symposium
.
Request Information
Loading...
Aneelia Ma’s Business Success
Each spring, the JWU Charlotte community cheers on students pitching their business ideas to entrepreneurship-industry judges, competing for seed money. Last year’s winning entry was by student Aneelia Ma, who pitched “Neelia’s,” a local healthy cooking service for kids and their families.
Find Out More
Launch Your Career at JWU Charlotte
Your own entrepreneurial pursuits can start here. Our students get a solid business core encompassing macroeconomics, microeconomics, accounting, business management, finance, operations and supply chain, human resources management, marketing foundations and global strategy. You can pursue your electives depending on the pathways that interest you most, from international business to organizational behavior to marketing. Other great reasons:
You can apply your free elective credit to options such as a
Directed Experiential Education
(DEE), an intensive, project-based experiential learning opportunity, as well as for an internship, minor or study abroad.
You’ll be prepared to launch your own business as well as prepared to work for small business and start-up companies, equipped with the decision-support tools to resolve issues and solve problems.
You’ll have experience in types of capital funding sources for both start-up and existing businesses while having developed the skills to communicate effectively with diverse audiences.
Innovation Lab & Entrepreneurship Center
Our Innovation Lab & Entrepreneurship Center serves as a hub for entrepreneurship, where students can use prototyping, audio/visual and telecommunication equipment to create business plans, pitch to investors, assess competitors, analyze markets and more.
Here, guest speakers such as Enventys CEO Louis Foreman and successful alumni of our program share their experiences as investors, startup founders and business owners, helping them realize the paths available to them and answering their questions.
Launch Experience
Sample Courses
Introduction to Entrepreneurship
Pitching & Planning New Ventures
Marketing for Entrepreneurs
Financing New Ventures
Change and Innovation Management
Entrepreneurship Seminar
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
Explore the full JWU Catalog course listing:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Business owner
Business manager
Management consultant
Operations management
Financial analyst or advisor
Sales manager
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
James Woods
Assistant Professor and Department Chair, Management & Marketing; Charlotte College Chair
Woods leads an incubator designed to train new entrepreneurs at Charlotte. His career spans research, product & business development and business operations.
Fred Tiess
Master Instructor
A World Certified Master Chef, Tiess has worked at various five-star resorts, private clubs and independent restaurants and now owns several ventures of his own. He enjoys helping future entrepreneurs realize their professional and lifelong aspirations.
Mo Moshtaghi
Associate Professor
Moshtaghi’s business experience extends to the areas of controllership, import/export management and marketing. He has acted as an accounting consultant to construction, real estate and development companies.
Related Programs
Food & Beverage Entrepreneurship
In this program you’ll learn skills that will help prepare you to open your own venture, join an emerging food- or beverage-related venture, or work as a corporate entrepreneur.
Business Administration
In this program, you’ll learn about every level of an organization — from accounting and human resources to marketing and business analytics.
Business Studies
In this program you’ll gain a broad understanding of current business practices and the effective organization of a company’s financial and human resources to prepare for long-term growth.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Faculty Contact
Charlotte
James Woods
980-598-3123
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.