URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/charlotte-programs/psychology-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Bachelor of Science
Psychology
Program Overview
Student Spotlight
Learn by Doing
Courses
Faculty
In this section
Gain Insight Into Human Behavior
Studying psychology is a great way to better understand yourself and those around you. This field offers so many different career pathways for you to pursue, from individual, couples and family counseling, to school counseling, community mental health, and career and workplace psychology.
The
JWU Charlotte
curriculum also offers a generous selection of free electives and minors where you can explore additional interests and extend your training beyond the limits of the psychology major. We offer an optional counseling specialization that includes an internship experience during which you will gain hands-on experience within a supervised clinical setting. While our curriculum's foundation is general psychology, many of our courses emphasize counseling theories, skills and interventions.
Our faculty are not only exceptional educators but also have active, ongoing industry experience in the field of counseling. They incorporate their expertise into the course curriculum with real clinical examples and experiential class activities for students to develop and practice their clinical skills. Examples include mock clinical interviews, counseling sessions, case formulation, group counseling, diagnosis and treatment planning.
Request Information
Loading...
Self-Growth Through Psychology
“JWU
’
s Psychology program is extensive and brings a lot of growth to someone starting in the psychology field,” notes Gianna Marlow '24. “The hands-on aspect is what I feel makes this program thrive, as well as the small classes.”
Meet Gianna Marlow
Make a Positive Impact with Experiential Education
The lessons you learn here can allow you to make a difference in the lives of others — even before you graduate. Throughout the program, there will be
experiential education
opportunities for you to put your lessons into practice with real clients in real clinical settings. Learning by doing is the foundation of a JWU education, but it’s especially important in this program so that you’re prepared to head into the industry and make a positive impact on others right away.
Why Study Psychology at JWU Charlotte?
Learn how to apply key concepts, theories and research findings to understand, explain and evaluate human behavior.
Use creative and critical thinking to evaluate, interpret, design and conduct basic psychological research ethically.
Have opportunities to intern in real clinical settings.
Learn from a program coordinator who is a licensed clinical psychologist with extensive and ongoing clinical and instructional experience
Have practical career guidance above and beyond the academic curriculum.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Johnson & Wales Charlotte (@jwucharlotte)
Sample Courses
Abnormal Psychology
Intro to Professional Issues and Ethics in Psychology
Personality Developmental Psychology
Principles of Group Counseling
Deviant Behavior
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
Explore the full JWU Charlotte Catalog course listing:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Social Worker
Clinical Psychologist
Addiction Counselor
School Psychologist
Psychiatric Technician
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Related Programs
Psychology/ Addiction Counseling
Fast track to an Addiction Counseling master’s degree through JWU’s combined B.S. Psychology/M.S. Addiction Counseling program.
Psychology/Clinical Mental Health Counseling
Fast track to a Clinical Mental Health Counseling master’s degree through JWU’s combined B.S. Psychology/M.S. Clinical Mental Health Counseling program.
Public Health
Learn to assess and plan for community needs. Explore a holistic approach to health through courses in nutrition, exercise science, psychology, sociology, public health and economics.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Michael Childers
Professor and College Chair
Childers’ areas of expertise include employment law, civil litigation, workers’ compensation, constitutional law and appellate advocacy.
Adam Peal
Assistant Professor
Peal’s areas of expertise include applied behavior analysis and educational psychology. He co-founded the Behavioral Education Research Initiative (BERI) to promote advances in behavioral science research.
Howard Slutzky
Professor
Slutzky has worked in a variety of clinical settings including community mental health, college counseling, and private practice. He has a particular interest in the areas of emotional intelligence, mindfulness, and positive psychology.
Faculty Contact
Charlotte
Howard Slutzky, Psy.D.
980-598-3224
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.