URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/charlotte-programs/wine-and-beverage-education.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Wine & Beverage Education
In this section
Apply Now
Request Information
Visit JWU
Majors & Degrees
Minors
Join a Legacy of Culinary Excellence
Program Overview
Ready to take your wine and spirits knowledge to the next level?
Johnson & Wales University is an Approved Program Provider for the Wine & Spirits Education Trust (WSET), a globally recognized organization providing education and qualifications in wine, spirits and sake for professionals and enthusiasts alike.
Offering 3 progressive levels of study, these qualifications are suitable for those just beginning their career, as well as established professionals and wine enthusiasts eager to pursue their passion.
Courses are offered in person at JWU’s Charlotte Campus; in addition, online classes are offered through the WSET Online Classroom.
REGISTER FOR CLASSES
Toggle
COURSES
WSET LEVEL I AWARD IN WINES
$395 in person | $300 online | One-day session | Dates and times vary
For individuals new to wine study, this qualification provides a hands on introduction to the world of wine. Explore the main types and styles of wine. Gain the basic skills to describe wines accurately and make food and wine pairings. Upon successful completion of the exam you will receive a WSET certificate and pin. Minimum requirement of 6 hours of study or classroom time. The assessment consists of a 30 question multiple choice exam.
WSET Level I Wine Course Qualifications
WSET LEVEL 2 AWARD IN WINES
$895 in person | $695 online | Dates and times vary
Build on your knowledge and learn about the principal and regionally important grape varieties of the world, the regions in which they are grown, and the factors that influence the wine’s style and quality. Using the WSET Systematic Approach to Tasting Wines, learn how to properly taste wine, describe the characteristics and assess the quality with confidence. Minimum requirement of 28 hours of study time, including 16 hours of classroom or online delivery time; course concludes with a 50-question multiple choice exam.
WSET Level II Wines Qualifications
WSET ADVANCED LEVEL 3 AWARD IN WINES
$1,525 in person | $1395 online hybrid | Dates and times vary
This advanced level qualification is for industry professionals as well as wine enthusiasts interested in delving deeper into the world of wine. Gain a detailed understanding of wine production, including location, grape growing, wine making, maturation and bottling, and how these key factors influence the style and quality of wines around the world. Learn to assess wine accurately and use your understanding to confidently explain wine style and quality – making this an ideal course for anyone wishing to expand their wine knowledge or to gain confidence and authority to make informed decisions in the wine trade. Minimum requirement of 84 hours of study time, including 30 hours of classroom or online delivery time, and concluding with a 50-question multiple choice exam, a paper requiring short written answers, and a blind tasting of two wine samples.
WSET Level III Wines Qualifications
Toggle
FAQs
What is the cancellation policy?
Cancellations of confirmed registrations will be accepted up to 15 days prior to the start of the course. An administration fee of $50, plus the full cost of study materials supplied will be deducted and the remainder of the course fee refunded. If cancelled less than 15 days prior to the start date, or at any time after the start of the course, no refund or transfer of the course fees will be made. JWU reserves the right to cancel classes due to insufficient registrations.
What is included in the price?
Included in the course price are all WSET study materials, in-class instruction, six to eight wine tasting samples each week, exam fees and postage.
Are there any enrollment requirements/prerequisites for level 3?
It is recommended that you have the WSET Level 2 Award in Wine or Spirits qualification before enrolling in the Level 3 qualifications. There are no prerequisites for the WSET Level 2 Award in Wine or Spirits.
Is the exam offered online?
No, the exam is offered in person only at JWU Charlotte.
Can I reschedule my exam date?
Students have 12 months from the start of their course to sit the exam; therafter another exam fee will apply. You may defer your scheduled exam one time by notifying Patricia DelBello
pdelbello@jwu.edu
in writing, at least 15 business days prior to the scheduled exam date.
Levels 1 and 2: A fee of $125 will apply for students whose original exam fee has expired, whether by failure to attend, failure to defer prior to the deferral deadline, or failure to sit their exam within one year of their class start date, as well as students who are re-sitting the exam following a previous unsuccessful attempt.
Level 3: A fee of $125 for the theory exam and $75 for the tasting exam will apply for students whose original exam fee has expired, whether by failure to attend, failure to defer prior to the deferral deadline, or failure to sit their exam within one year of their class start date, as well as students who are re-sitting the exam following a previous unsuccessful attempt.
What happens if I do not pass the exam?
If you do not pass the exam on your first try, you can re-sit the exam during another scheduled exam date. A re-sit fee of $125 (theory portion of exam) and $75 (tasting portion of exam) will apply.
What does the WSET Level 3 Award in Wines exam consist of?
Candidates will be required to pass a closed-book examination, comprised of two units.
Unit 1: Theory assessment is comprised of 50 multiple-choice questions and four short written answer questions of 25 marks each. A grade of 55% in each part is required to pass.
Unit 2: Tasting Examination consists of tasting two blind wines and accurately describing the wines and drawing conclusions based on these observations. The tasting examination must be completed in 30 minutes. A grade of 55% is required to pass the tasting portion.
Should I take the Level 3 online or in person course?
The online course offers you more flexibility to fit the course into your schedule. You are able to log in at your convenience to access the course and complete class assignments. You will need to purchase the suggested wine samples from a list that is provided for you.
How long do I have access to the online classroom?
You will have instructor access for the 9 weeks of classroom coursework, and one year from the course start date of access to all online activities and materials.
Reasonable Adjustments Policy
Johnson & Wales University strives to provide an inclusive environment for all of our students and will make every reasonable attempt to provide support services for students with disabilities. In addition to assessment adjustments, the WSET and Johnson & Wales can provide learning materials for students with special educational needs and will aim to accommodate any reasonable request. Reasonable adjustments must be applied for, and approved by the WSET in advance, and Johnson & Wales must be made aware of necessary accommodations at the time of enrollment. A WSET
Reasonable Adjustment Application Form
(PDF) and supporting documentation must be completed at least six weeks prior to the assessment. For further information and concerns, please contact Patricia DelBello
by email
or by phone at 980-598-1431.
Contact
Have additional questions? Contact:
Patricia DelBello
980-598-1431
Patricia.delbello@jwu.edu
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.