URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/charlotte-programs/public-health-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Bachelor of Science
Public Health
Program Overview
Learn by Doing
Courses
Faculty
In this section
Help Increase Health Accessibility
At
JWU Charlotte
, public health means improving the health of diverse populations. In our B.S. in Public Health, you will learn to assess and plan for community needs, exploring a holistic approach through interdisciplinary courses in public health, nutrition, exercise science, psychology, sociology and economics.
Students in the public health program learn to think about global health and how to address global issues, focusing on a country and developing solutions to problems its populations face. Many take additional electives in management to become prepared for entry-level careers in such areas as healthcare administration and management, consulting, policy administration and quality improvement in healthcare.
Our Public Health graduates can apply to continue their education through
JWU’s Master of Public Health degree program
at our
Providence Campus
, taking a more comprehensive immersion in public health in order to train as future leaders. Other graduates of our B.S. in Public Health program have gone on to earn M.P.H. degrees at institutions including Johns Hopkins University, New York University and George Washington University.
Through small class sizes and personalized instruction, you will work closely with supportive, industry-knowledgeable faculty who take a personal interest in helping you prepare for your public health future. Having developed close relationships with local organizations, our faculty have helped students network and prepare for opportunities to improve community outcomes and conduct independent research.
Request Information
Loading...
What
Public
Health
Looks Like at JWU Charlotte
Johnson & Wales students are encouraged to become public health advocates under the mentorship of research-focused and industry-experience faculty. This means having an opportunity to influence health firsthand through directed learning, research or a public health-related internship.
In this program, you'll:
Learn how to evaluate, present and analyze data and develop policies and interventions
Prepare for a career in healthcare or for graduate studies in public health
Obtain the intervention skills set to evaluate global health systems, identifying problems and developing solutions
Apply free elective credit to options ranging from
Directed Experiential Education
to internships to study abroad
Sample Courses
Mindfulness for Health & Wellbeing
Introduction to Global Health
Healthy Policy, Ethics and the Law
Health Education and Program Planning
Comparative Healthcare Systems
Data and Evidence in Health: Research Capstone
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
Explore the full JWU Catalog course listing:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Public health specialist
Grants coordinator
Research associate
Policy analyst
Data analyst
Project coordinator
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Christopher Roy
Associate Professor
Roy enjoys teaching chemistry courses at JWU. He held positions in teaching and research, including examining the isolation of anti-cancer compounds from marine organisms, at Duke University for 20 years.
Audrey Roberts
Assistant Professor
Roberts' graduate research was in both microbiology and molecular biology, focusing on breast cancer research.  She spent 16 years working and consulting in the fields of clinical molecular genetics, cytogenetics and molecular cytogenetics.
Related Programs
Accelerated Nursing (ABSN)
Our accelerated program is designed for individuals who already hold an earned bachelor’s degree or higher and wish to pursue nursing as a career.
Health Science
Gain knowledge that will help prepare you for a career in healthcare or for graduate studies in medicine, physical therapy, and more.
Public Health (MPH)
In the MPH program at JWU Providence, you’ll analyze the environmental factors influencing public health, health trends, disease prevention, health equity and DEI, and more.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.