URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/undergraduate/computer-science/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Bachelor’s
>
BS Computer Science
PROGRAM DETAILS
91 or 121 credits
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Do you have an interest or aptitude for technology? If you desire a computer science career, you can develop the skills employers are looking for with our online Bachelor of Science in Computer Science degree. This program develops your understanding of the conceptual knowledge behind computer technology applications in industry. This online computer science bachelor’s degree prepares you to make the connections between aspects of technical disciplines such as math and science to applied areas from software development to information security to programming and much more.
The demand for professionals with programming and networking skills is on the rise — and jobs in computer and information technology are expected to increase
faster than the average over the next decade
. Start the path to your computer science career today.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Engineering & Design.
What You'll Learn
Apply knowledge of math, science, engineering and contemporary developments in the fields of software programming, networking, system design, computer science and/or project management.
Analyze problems through the use of computer science concepts and processes to formulate, implement and test software-based algorithms.
Incorporate historical context and emerging developments in computer science to create adaptable and efficient algorithmic solutions that reflect ethical considerations and global awareness.
Use the techniques, skills and emerging tools necessary for analysis and evolution of algorithms in computer science.
Take the next step in your computer science career with an online computer science bachelor’s degree from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
New! Earn your Bachelor’s sooner with our streamlined degree option
Beginning in Fall 2025, you will have the opportunity to complete your Computer Science bachelor’s degree in less time with a
streamlined, 91-credit curriculum
. This new career-focused option allows you to complete your degree sooner and save on tuition while still receiving the same quality education and hands-on experiences JWU is known for. If you prefer a fuller curriculum, the traditional 120-credit degree option is also available.
Transfer credits for this program will be limited, as students must meet residency requirements and follow the curriculum plan outlined below. For questions about transfer credits, please contact
[email protected]
.  As with any program, actual time to completion depends on the number of courses you take each semester.
VIEW THE CAREER-FOCUSED CURRICULUM (PDF)
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Undergraduate Rates 2024 - 2025
$495
Per Credit Hours
$1,485
Per 3 Credit Hours
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Are you eligible for a scholarship or a grant? Check out all your options and see if you qualify.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
ONLINE COMPUTER SCIENCE BACHELOR’S DEGREE Sample Courses
Coursework for your computer science bachelor’s degree online covers the essentials of computer science, such as advanced data structures, information security, survey of programming languages, problem solving, and more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Computer Science Major Courses
Course Title
HCI/Usable Security
Network Protocols I
Information Security with Cryptography
Systems Modeling and Simulation
Related Professional Studies
Course Title
Introduction to Technical Communication
The Legal Environment of Business
Discrete Mathematics
Organizational Behavior
Applied/Experiential Learning
Course Title
Directed Experiential Education
OR
College of Engineering & Design Internship
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your online BS computer science degree? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application.
If you’re ready for a degree that can position you for your next career move, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH A BS in computer science DEGREE?
Your online JWU bachelor’s of computer science positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in computer science. Graduates of this program have found employment at companies such as the following:
Microsoft
FM Global
ICF International
Navsea Warfare Centers
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in computer science. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.