URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/graduate/criminal-justice/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Master’s
>
MS Criminal Justice
PROGRAM DETAILS
2 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Resourceful and compassionate professionals are needed in our justice system; take your place among them with a Master of Science in Criminal Justice from Johnson & Wales University. Our online master’s degree in criminal justice program combines criminological and organizational theory with policy and practice to help prepare you for leadership roles in the field. The coursework for this online degree program is academically rigorous to help you develop a comprehensive understanding of the public and private sides of today’s criminal justice landscape.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s John Hazen White College of Arts & Sciences.
What You'll Learn
Demonstrate how criminological theory informs public policy and shapes the operation of the American criminal justice system.
Use management theory to evaluate the operation of a criminal justice agency and suggest policy changes to improve the operational effectiveness of the organization.
Articulate the importance of cultural and global diversity in creating a fair and just criminal justice system.
Apply moral philosophy to professional and ethical decision making in the field of criminal justice.
Utilize team leadership skills that include collaboration, problem solving, ethical awareness and appreciation of diversity to address problems faced by criminal justice agencies.
Communicate appropriately and effectively within various organizational contexts, employing appropriate technologies to organize and present information to address a range of audiences and purposes.
Analyze, evaluate and synthesize original criminal justice research that utilizes the scientific method and appropriate sampling, measurement and data collection techniques; evaluate proper data presentation, considering the ethics and politics of reporting.
Ready to pursue a career in law enforcement and the justice system with a Master of Science in Criminal Justice from Johnson & Wales University? Take the next step.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Graduate Rates 2024-2025
$842
Per Credit Hour
$2,526
Per 3 Credit Hours
Scholarships Available for Eligible Students
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Learn how you may qualify for a scholarship, including our 20% Graduate Success Scholarship.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
Online MS CRIMINAL JUSTICE Sample Courses
Coursework for your criminal justice master’s degree online program will offer a comprehensive review of the criminal justice system — courts, corrections and law enforcement. Through five core classes and your choice of five electives, you’ll have the opportunity to cover juvenile justice, investigative research methods and inquiry, counterterrorism, emergency management, crime prevention, technology for criminology and more! Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Criminal Justice Core Courses
Course Title
Advanced Administration of Criminal Justice
Contemporary Criminology and Crime Prevention
Criminal Justice Ethics and Diversity in a Global Environment
Research and Inquiry
Criminal Justice Elective Courses
Course Title
Juvenile Justice Issues
Social, Community and Restorative Justice
Counterterrorism
Homeland Security
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Are you ready to take your criminal justice career to the next level? Making your mark protecting and serving could be easier than you think, especially with a criminal justice online master’s degree from Johnson & Wales University. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to guide you through the process and answer all your questions, from tuition costs to financial aid to career services. We cap it off with a free application for your online master’s degree and no GRE or GMAT requirements.
If you already hold an undergraduate degree and you’re ready for more, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH AN Ms in criminal justice DEGREE?
Whether you desire to work in the courts, in corrections or on the front lines fighting crime, the right criminal justice program can help you advance your career. At JWU College of Professional Studies, our online master’s degree in criminal justice was built to help you gain a deeper understanding of various justice systems and hone your skills. Graduates of this program have found employment in companies such as:
US Department of Homeland Security
Taft Stettinius & Hollister LLP
Massachusetts State Police
Plymouth County Sheriff Office
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in criminal justice. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.