URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/undergraduate/culinary-arts-and-food-service-management/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Bachelor’s
>
BS Culinary Arts & Food Service Management
PROGRAM DETAILS
2 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Do you aspire to create positive culinary experiences for consumers? With the online Bachelor of Science in Culinary Arts & Food Service Management you can amplify your aspirations with the right tools and skills in the management of culinary production and service. This bachelor’s degree in food service management online can prepare you to impact overall quality for consumers in restaurants, food and beverage retail and more.
This program requires an associate degree in culinary arts to enter and builds upon your prior study experiences to help you learn the business and management sides of the field. If you have not completed your associate’s degree in culinary arts but have an interest in our food service management degree, our
BS – Hospitality Management degree
may be the best fit to help you achieve your career goals.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Hospitality Management.
What You'll Learn
Apply the major concepts, skills and values of the food service management profession to address industry problems both locally and globally.
Communicate effectively to diverse audiences, purposes and situations in food service operations.
Analyze and interpret insights gained from decision-support tools and relevant sources to solve problems and improve organizational performance within the food service operations.
Comprehend and apply industry specific operational standards.
Take the next step in your food service management career with a bachelor’s degree food service management online from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Undergraduate Rates 2024 - 2025
$495
Per Credit Hours
$1,485
Per 3 Credit Hours
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Are you eligible for a scholarship or a grant? Check out all your options and see if you qualify.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
ONLINE BACHELOR’S DEGREE FOOD SERVICE MANAGEMENT Sample Courses
Coursework for your food service management degree online program develops industry expertise in food and beverages strategies and logistics, hospitality strategic marketing, financial and managerial accounting, advanced food service operations management, and more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Culinary Arts & Food Service Management Major Courses
Course Title
Food and Beverage Technology & Application Systems
Food Service and Hospitality Strategic Marketing
Food and Beverage Strategies and Logistics
Human Resources Management in Service Organizations
Business Foundations Courses
Course Title
Accounting for Hospitality Service Organizations
Financial Management for Hospitality Service Organizations
Hospitality Law
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your food service management degree online? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application.
If you’re ready for a degree that can position you for your next career move, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH A BS in Culinary Arts & Food Service Management DEGREE?
Your online JWU bachelor’s of culinary arts and food service management positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in food service management. Graduates of this program have found employment at companies such as the following:
Disney
Marriott International
Aramark
FLIK Hospitality Group
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in food service management. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.
“The program at JWU was definitely worth the investment. The food service management industry has so many different avenues – I can be a chef or a food and beverage director, or maybe even a general manager. If I ever need a backup plan because I can’t work anymore as a chef, I have confidence this bachelor’s degree will open up new opportunities for me within or outside of the industry.”
– Michael Yates, '23
Read the Full Story