URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/graduate/data-analytics/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Master’s
>
MS Data Analytics
PROGRAM DETAILS
2 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
The world of business today revolves around the strategic use of data. From private enterprise to government agencies to nonprofits, decision-making leaders at every level and in every industry depend on Big Data essentials to guide their organizations to better outcomes and brighter futures. If you’ve been thinking about what data science can do for your professional future, take a look at what JWU’s Master of Science in Data Analytics has to offer.
This master’s level program covers the fundamentals involved in pursuing (or advancing) a career in data and business analytics. You’ll investigate statistical analysis, data mining, data visualization, forecasting, predictive modeling and more. You’ll learn how to combine math, statistics and computer science to collect, analyze and interpret data. You’ll evaluate different methods, such as machine learning, to more effectively mine data. You’ll discover how to spot trends in multiple markets. And you’ll gain the statistical methods and analytic tools needed to solve real-world issues through data — and increase your value to organizations in need of professionals who can help propel business forward with powerful decision-making based on data.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Engineering & Design.
What You'll Learn
Integrate the knowledge of mathematics, statistics and computer science to collect, analyze and interpret data.
Use data to drive organizational decisions and optimize performance.
Conduct analysis for advanced data mining strategies to optimize model performance.
Make recommendations based on the evaluation of the ethical, legal and political issues of data usage and its implications for a given application, market or population.
Are you ready to take your tech career to the next level? Make your move with the MS Data Analytics online program from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Graduate Rates 2024-2025
$842
Per Credit Hour
$2,526
Per 3 Credit Hours
Scholarships Available for Eligible Students
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Learn how you may qualify for a scholarship, including our 20% Graduate Success Scholarship.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
Online MS DATA ANALYTICS Sample Courses
Coursework for your master’s in data analytics online program provides the essentials you need to pursue leadership tech roles in just about any industry. Your online master’s program covers data research methods, management, mining, analysis and visualization, as well as deep dives into predictive modeling and analytics. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Data Analysis Courses
Course Title
Tools for Data Analytics
Data Mining
Data Visualization
Text & Web Mining Analytics
Introduction to Predictive Modeling
Optimization Simulation
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Are you ready for an MS Data Analytics online program that will help you hone your data science skills and prepare you for career advancement? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to help guide you through the process and answer all your questions, from tuition costs to career services. We cap it off with a free application for your online master’s program and no GRE or GMAT requirements.
If you already hold an undergraduate degree and you’re ready for more, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH AN MS in data analytics DEGREE?
As the technologies and strategies for harnessing the power of usable, relevant information take center stage, qualified professionals are needed more than ever before to keep the wheels of business turning. At JWU, our online master’s in data analytics offers the skills, insights and graduate-level credential you need to help C-Suite executives make the right decision.
Whether you are looking to advance or start your career, this analytics program can help you prepare for a role as a:
Business Intelligence Analyst
Competitive Intelligence Analyst
Market Intelligence Consultant
Database Architect
Data Warehousing Specialist
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in data analytics. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.