URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/undergraduate/digital-marketing-social-media/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Bachelor’s
>
BS Digital Marketing & Social Media
PROGRAM DETAILS
4 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
The contemporary business world has an increasing need for professionals who can effectively comprehend, plan, and communicate brand messaging across various digital networks and platforms. Through targeted social media marketing courses, this online Bachelor of Science in Digital Marketing & Social Media degree prepares students with the knowledge to plan comprehensive social strategies — including SEO, content marketing, digital advertising and generative AI — analyze sophisticated data, and drive the online solutions necessary for success. This BS digital marketing and social media degree prepares you to establish new digital branding and take current brands even further.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Business.
What You'll Learn
Collect and analyze data to evaluate the effectiveness of social media and digital marketing strategies.
Analyze, evaluate and redesign existing digital marketing and/or social media strategies to optimize an organization’s online presence.
Provide data-driven solutions for the management of content in social media and online marketing campaigns.
Communicate complex data sets to both technical and non-technical audiences.
Take the next step in your digital marketing career with a Bachelor of Science in Digital Marketing & Social Media from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Undergraduate Rates 2024 - 2025
$495
Per Credit Hours
$1,485
Per 3 Credit Hours
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Are you eligible for a scholarship or a grant? Check out all your options and see if you qualify.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
Online BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN DIGITAL MARKETING & SOCIAL MEDIA Sample Courses
Coursework for your online digital marketing degree hospitality graduate certificate covers the essentials of digital marketing—from digital media planning and marketing analytics to search engine marketing and social media marketing to data-driven marketing and more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Digital Marketing & Social Media Major Courses
Course Title
Influencer Marketing
Content Creation and Generative AI
Integrated Search Engine Marketing Campaigns
Market Research and Consumer Insights
Foundations of Web Design
User Experience and Content Design
Content Management Systems
Design for Video
Optional Applied/Experiential Learning
Course
College of Business Internship
OR
Directed Experiential Education
OR
College of Engineering & Design Internship
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your BS digital marketing & social media degree? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application.
If you’re ready for a degree that can position you for your next career move, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH A BS in Digital Marketing & Social Media DEGREE?
Your online JWU bachelor’s of digital marketing & social media positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in digital marketing. In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in digital marketing, including careers such as the following:
Search Marketing Strategist
Film and Video Editor
Art Director
Graphic Designer
To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.
“
“Unable to attend classes on campus, but determined to get my bachelor’s degree, CPS made a premium higher education experience accessible for me. JWU CPS seamlessly delivers their online students a true college experience, including endless opportunities to connect with peers and professors. I benefitted by being hired part-time at my internship, while still earning my B.S. Digital Marketing & Social Media degree. I appreciate the genuinely enjoyable educational experience I’ve had and that JWU CPS creates for all of their online students.”
– Benjamin Huntzinger ’25, BS Digital Marketing & Social Media