URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/undergraduate/entrepreneurship/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Bachelor’s
>
BSBA Entrepreneurship
PROGRAM DETAILS
4 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Ready to claim your space on the business frontier? The online Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Entrepreneurship offers the tools and expertise you need to propel a new business concept within your current organization or develop a new venture. This online bachelor’s degree in entrepreneurship is designed to help you effectively navigate the lifecycle of entrepreneurial pursuits—from ideation to sustainable growth.
Gain the knowledge to start your own business, as well as work for small businesses and startup companies. As an Entrepreneurship major, you’ll also benefit from a deeper understanding of intrapreneurship and how to lead change within organizations.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Business.
What You'll Learn
Apply the major concepts, skills and values of business administration.
Communicate effectively to diverse audiences, purposes and situations through a variety of professional methods within business administration.
Use decision-support tools to resolve contemporary business issues using ethical business practices.
Identify the types of capital funding sources for start-up and existing businesses.
Develop a viable business plan.
Take the next step in your entrepreneurship career with an online bachelor’s degree in entrepreneurship from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Undergraduate Rates 2024 - 2025
$495
Per Credit Hours
$1,485
Per 3 Credit Hours
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Are you eligible for a scholarship or a grant? Check out all your options and see if you qualify.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
ONLINE BACHELOR’S DEGREE IN ENTREPRENEURSHIP Sample Courses
Coursework for your bachelor’s in entrepreneurship online covers entrepreneurship essentials, such as change and innovation management, growth and sustainability for small business, marketing entrepreneurs, small business management, pitching & planning new ventures, and more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Entrepreneurship Major Courses
Course Title
Pitching & Planning New Ventures
Marketing for Entrepreneurs
Change and Innovation Management
Organizational Behavior
Entrepreneurship Major Electives
Course Title
Small Business Management
Growth and Sustainability for Small Business
Financing New Ventures
Business Foundations Courses
Course Title
The Legal Environment of Business I
Human Resource Management
Operations and Supply Chain Management
Marketing Foundations
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your bachelor’s of entrepreneurship online? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application.
If you’re ready for a degree that can position you for your next career move, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH A BS in entrepreneurship DEGREE?
Your JWU entrepreneurship degree positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in entrepreneurship. Graduates of this program have found employment in companies such as:
Amazon
JPMorgan Chase
Fidelity Investments
Wayfair
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in entrepreneurship. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.