URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/graduate/event-leadership/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Master’s
>
MBA Event Leadership
PROGRAM DETAILS
2 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
From putting on a mega-concert or a playoff game to holding business conventions or local charity events, every successful live event starts with organizational know-how and strategic planning. Strong and creative business leaders are needed to ensure every event—large, small, local, global—goes on without a hitch. Take your place among them with this online Master of Business Administration with an Event Leadership concentration from Johnson & Wales University. Coursework for this MBA covers leadership development as well as industry-specific insights to help you make your mark in event management.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Business.
What You'll Learn
Gather, interpret and analyze research to inform decision-making at operational and strategic levels of an organization.
Use advanced communication skills and awareness of cultural differences in global and domestic business interactions.
Analyze problems from a diverse perspective, propose effective solutions and evaluate the impact of executive decisions.
Assess and evaluate business entities taking into account cross-functional environments as they affect ethical decision making in domestic and global organizations.
Advance organizational objectives and support strategic initiatives through the development and production of events.
Learn what it takes to design, plan, and execute live events at any scale. Pursue your MBA with a concentration in Event Leadership from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Graduate Rates 2024-2025
$842
Per Credit Hour
$2,526
Per 3 Credit Hours
Scholarships Available for Eligible Students
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Learn more about how you may qualify for a scholarship, including our 20% Graduate Success Scholarship.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
Online MBA IN EVENT LEADERSHIP Sample Courses
Coursework for your event leadership MBA online program covers the essentials of what it takes to develop, organize, manage, and host events of every size and type. Your MBA degree covers event leadership, design, planning, site selection, venue management, negotiating, marketing, budgeting, and more — everything you need to take your career to the next level. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Event Management Courses
Course Title
Event Leadership and Planning
Event Operations & Risk Management
Sustainable Event Management
Negotiations for Event Management
MBA Core Courses
Course Title
Financial Management
Operations Management
Effective Leadership
Strategic Marketing
Business Foundations Courses
Course Title
Business Fundamentals
Quantitative Methods in Business
NOTE: With regards to Business Foundation courses, upon receipt of your transcripts, your prior coursework will be evaluated to determine the ability to waive out of these two courses. If you need to complete one or both of the foundation courses, you may take these courses as part of your program or test out of these courses via exam. Your dedicated admissions associate will discuss with you the option that will work best for you.
In addition, please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Are you ready for an MBA program that will help you hone your leadership skills and prepare you next-level careers in events and entertainment management? We can help. At Johnson & Wales University, our event management graduate program offers the insights, skills, and credential you need to pursue a host of leadership opportunities. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application for your online MBA and no GRE or GMAT requirements.
If you already hold an undergraduate degree and you’re ready for more, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH AN MBA in Event Leadership DEGREE?
Whether you’re already in event management and want to take your career to an executive level or you’re just getting your foot in the door, the right degree can make all the difference. JWU’s event leadership MBA program covers everything you need to effectively organize and manage meetings, conferences, conventions, concerts, and events of all shapes and sizes.
Graduates of this program have found employment in companies such as:
Hilton
Ritz-Carlton
Marriott International
The Vanguard Group
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in event leadership. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.