URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/undergraduate/fashion-merchandising-retailing/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Bachelor’s
>
BS Fashion Merchandising & Retailing
PROGRAM DETAILS
4 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Do you have an eye for design and an ear to the ground for fashion retail trends? This online Bachelor of Science in Fashion Merchandising & Retailing can make the most of your passion for fashion and retail through a blend of key expertise across both industries. This online fashion merchandising bachelor's degree connects your learning to careers within a number of fashion and retail settings—from fashion production, public relations, to retail forecasting and much more.
If a management, merchandising, marketing, or public relations position within the vast retail industry is your goal, our online Fashion Merchandising & Retailing bachelor’s degree is for you.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Business.
What You'll Learn
Apply the major concepts and skills related to the global fashion industry.
Communicate effectively for diverse audiences, purposes and situations through a variety of professional methods as required in fashion and retailing industries.
Use industry resources to address contemporary issues in global fashion.
Apply profitability and analytical competencies necessary for careers in fashion merchandising and retailing.
Develop targeted forecasts of the production and acquisition of consumer goods consistent with ethical business practices.
Take the next step in your fashion merchandising career with a fashion merchandising bachelor’s degree online from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Undergraduate Rates 2024 - 2025
$495
Per Credit Hours
$1,485
Per 3 Credit Hours
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Are you eligible for a scholarship or a grant? Check out all your options and see if you qualify.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
Online FASHION MERCHANDISING BACHELOR’S DEGREE Sample Courses
Coursework for your online fashion merchandising degree covers fashion retail industry essentials such as forecasting, strategic planning in the fashion industry, the textiles industry, introductory retail and fashion concepts and much more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Fashion Merchandising & Retailing Major Courses
Course Title
The Textiles Industry
Retail and Fashion Lab
Forecasting
Strategic Planning in the Fashion Industry
Business Foundation Courses
Course Title
Financial Accounting
The Legal Environment of Business
Operations and Supply Chain Management
Marketing Foundations
Applied/Experiential Learning
Course Title
College of Business Internship
OR
Directed Experiential Education
OR
Study Abroad
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your online fashion merchandising bachelor's degree? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application.
If you’re ready for a degree that can position you for your next career move, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH A BS in Fashion Merchandising & Retailing DEGREE?
Your online JWU bachelor’s of fashion merchandising & retailing positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in the fashion retail industry. Graduates of this program have found employment at companies such as the following:
Burberry Group
Nordstrom
Tory Burch
TJX
Target
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in fashion. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.