URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/undergraduate/finance/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Bachelor’s
>
BS Finance
PROGRAM DETAILS
4 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Do you have an aptitude for crunching the numbers and a passion for helping others thrive financially? It’s only natural you’d look at pursuing a business career in the world of finance, perhaps as a financial advisor or a financial analyst. This online Bachelor of Science in Finance degree is designed to build out your foundational approach to finance through key explorations in financial analysis, management, communications, problem-solving and more. This bachelor’s of finance online prepares you to oversee financial planning and strategy for individuals and organizations.
Throughout this online program for your bachelor’s in finance, you will receive a solid educational foundation in capital management, financial institutions, economics, financial management and more. Plus, you’ll develop your professional skill set with tactics for better decision-making, communication, leadership, management and more. These are the skills necessary for life-long success at every level of business.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Business.
What You'll Learn
Apply the major concepts, skills and values of the finance profession.
Communicate effectively to diverse audiences, purposes and situations through a variety of professional methods required in the field of finance.
Use decision-support tools to solve problems and facilitate organizational processes.
Identify and analyze ethical issues related to financial decisions and recommend ethical responses and solutions.
Utilizing critical thinking and decision-making skills, apply common finance theories and concepts to changing global financial issues.
Take the next step in your finance career with an online BS finance degree from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Undergraduate Rates 2024 - 2025
$495
Per Credit Hours
$1,485
Per 3 Credit Hours
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Are you eligible for a scholarship or a grant? Check out all your options and see if you qualify.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
Online BACHELOR’S DEGREE IN FINANCE Sample Courses
Coursework for your bachelor’s of finance online covers finance essentials, including corporate finance, investments, financial markets and institutions, financial modeling and valuation and more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Finance Major Courses
Course Title
Financial Markets and Institutions
Investments
International Finance
Corporate Finance
Business Foundations Courses
Course Title
Financial Accounting
Business Analytics
The Legal Environment of Business
Marketing Foundations
Applied/Experiential Learning
Course Title
College of Business Internship
OR
Directed Experiential Education
OR
Study Abroad
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your online BS finance degree? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application.
If you’re ready for education that can position you for your next career move, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH A BS in finance DEGREE?
Your online JWU bachelor’s of finance positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in finance. Graduates of this program have found employment at companies such as the following:
Fidelity Investments
Bank of America
New York Life
Citizens Bank
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in finance. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.