URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/graduate/food-safety/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Master’s
>
MS Food Safety
PROGRAM DETAILS
2 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Manufacturers, food-industry leaders, and consumers agree: Food safety is a top concern. Today, the global food-supply chain is more complex than ever – and recalls and foodborne outbreaks make headlines. Professionals who know the best way to prevent poor food safety are more important than ever.
Through Johnson & Wales’ online Master of Science in Food Safety degree, students obtain food-safety training from a variety of perspectives, ranging from regulatory to retail and food processing. Through your advanced food-safety college courses, you’ll develop not only the knowledge you need but also workplace skills that are highly valued by employers.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Food Innovation & Technology.
What You'll Learn
Analyze research to inform decision-making as it relates to operational and procedural food safety decisions.
Create presentations that address domestic and global food safety concerns.
Evaluate current and emerging food safety problems, while proposing effective solutions and assessing the proposal’s impact.
Conduct comparative analysis of various regulatory frameworks across the food system.
Design a comprehensive food safety plan for an organization.
Take the next step in your food safety career with a food safety master's degree online from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Graduate Rates 2024-2025
$842
Per Credit Hour
$2,526
Per 3 Credit Hours
Scholarships Available for Eligible Students
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Learn how you may qualify for a scholarship, including our 20% Graduate Success Scholarship.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
ONLINE MS FOOD SAFETY Sample Courses
Coursework for your food safety master's degree online covers the basics of food safety within the contexts of the retail food industry, food processing, and regulatory compliance. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Note: Students must complete BIO 2220 Microbiology for Food Professionals and LAW 2001 The Legal Environment of Business I or equivalents as program prerequisites.
Food Safety Core Courses
Course Title
Introduction to Food Safety Systems
Foodborne Disease and Pathogen Control
Epidemiology and Food Safety
Food Law and Policy
Food Safety Elective Courses
Course Title
Regulatory Affairs Processing/ Retail
Global Food Safety and Sustainability
Food Defense and Adulteration Prevention
Produce Food Safety
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your online MS food safety degree? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application and no GRE or GMAT requirements.
If you already hold an undergraduate degree and you’re ready for more, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH AN Online MS in Food Safety DEGREE?
Your JWU online food safety master’s degree positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in food safety. Explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in the food safety industry. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.