URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/undergraduate/food-beverage-entrepreneurship/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Bachelor’s
>
BS Food & Beverage Entrepreneurship
PROGRAM DETAILS
2 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Interested in becoming a food entrepreneur? Aspire to make your unique mark on the food and beverage industry? If your goal is to open your own culinary business or partner in a food or beverage startup, this online Bachelor of Science in Food & Beverage Entrepreneurship degree can give you the expertise you need in innovation, entrepreneurship, problem-solving, culinary principles, food systems, marketing and more.
Benefit from experience and expertise unique to Johnson & Wales University — a leader in culinary education that also has a 100-year legacy of professional preparation. This food and beverage entrepreneurship degree online prepares you to carve out your own path to creating memorable and positive culinary experiences for consumers.
Available for students who already have an associate’s degree in culinary arts or baking and pastry arts,
this program builds upon prior study experiences to expand on the business and management sides of the field.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Hospitality Management.
What You'll Learn
Evaluate human, financial and other resources in the entrepreneurial ecosystem that support or inhibit new ventures.
Communicate effectively to diverse audiences, regarding different purposes and situations, through a variety of professional methods.
Apply ethical principles in response to common entrepreneurial decisions and challenges.
Develop a business plan for an innovative product or service in a food or beverage-related market.
Analyze the sources of funding available for food and beverage-related ventures and use decision support tools to determine effective structures for early-stage investments.
Take the next step in your food and beverage entrepreneurship career with a food and beverage entrepreneurship degree online from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Undergraduate Rates 2024 - 2025
$495
Per Credit Hours
$1,485
Per 3 Credit Hours
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Are you eligible for a scholarship or a grant? Check out all your options and see if you qualify.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
Online FOOD & BEVERAGE ENTREPRENEURSHIP DEGREE Sample Courses
Coursework for your food and beverage entrepreneurship degree covers the essentials of entrepreneurship in retail food and beverage industry, including pitching & planning new ventures, financing new ventures, marketing for entrepreneurs, change and innovation management, and more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Food & Beverage Entrepreneurship Major Courses
Course Title
Pitching & Planning New Ventures
Small Business Management
Marketing for Entrepreneurs
Food Service Financial Systems
Culinary Operations and Facility Management
The Legal Environment of Business
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your food and beverage entrepreneurship degree? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application.
If you’re ready for education that can position you for your next career move, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH A BS in Food and Beverage Entrepreneurship DEGREE?
Your JWU food and beverage entrepreneurship degree positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in the food and beverage industry. Graduates of this program have found employment in companies such as:
Marriott International
Disney
Augusta National Golf Club
Robert Mondavi Winery
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in food and beverage entrepreneurship. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.