URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/undergraduate/food-industry-compliance-management/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Bachelor’s
>
BS Food Industry Compliance Management
PROGRAM DETAILS
4 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Ready to make a difference in food safety? This online Bachelor of Science in Food Industry Compliance Management degree introduces the foundations of food compliance and the regulatory food industry. This food industry compliance degree prepares you to impact the safe consumption of food within food production and service oversight in a number of settings from food manufacturing to restaurants to food retail and more.
In addition, coursework will prepare students for certifications such as the National Restaurant Association Foodservice Management Professional (FMP), U.S. Food and Drug Administration Food Defense Awareness, OSHA Outreach, National Restaurant Association ManageFirst, and TAPSeries.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Hospitality Management.
What You'll Learn
Demonstrate a commitment to remaining current in the profession by obtaining and maintaining industry recognized certifications.
Effectively communicate food compliance standard practices to diverse audiences.
Create operational policies and procedures that will advance a food safety compliance culture.
Apply the major concepts and compliance practices to a variety of food production operations.
Analyze and interpret insights gained from decision-support tools and relevant sources to solve problems and improve organizational performance within the food service industry.
Take the next step in your food compliance career with a food industry compliance degree Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Undergraduate Rates 2024 - 2025
$495
Per Credit Hours
$1,485
Per 3 Credit Hours
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Are you eligible for a scholarship or a grant? Check out all your options and see if you qualify.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
Online FOOD Industry COMPLIANCE DEGREE Sample Courses
Coursework for your food industry compliance degree covers the fundamentals of the regulated food industry, in key areas such as food code and policy, introduction to public health, food and beverage strategies and logistics and nutrition. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Food Industry Compliance Management Major Courses
Course Title
Microbiology for Food Professionals
Medical Food Service
Food Code and Policy
Front of the House Operations Management
Business Foundations Courses
Course Title
Accounting for Hospitality Service Organizations
Financial Management for Hospitality Service Organizations
Applied/Experiential Learning
Course Title
College of Hospitality Management Internship
OR
Directed Experiential Education
OR
Study Abroad
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your food compliance degree? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application.
Admission to the program requires passing a national food safety manager exam that is recognized by the Conference for Food Protection.
If you’re ready for education that can position you for your next career move, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH A BS in Food Industry Compliance Management DEGREE?
Your JWU food industry compliance degree positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in the regulatory and retail food sectors. Explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in food compliance and regulations.
To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.