URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/undergraduate/hospitality-management/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Bachelor’s
>
BS Hospitality Management
PROGRAM DETAILS
90 or 120 credits
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
When you think of hospitality, visions of traveling to exotic new locations, indulging in the local culinary scene, and friendly resort staff catering to your needs come to mind. When it comes to hospitality management, companies think of Johnson & Wales University. Whether you’re looking to take your hospitality career to the next level or seeking to break into this exciting industry, look no further than our BS Hospitality Management program, which combines learning fundamental business concepts with the option of allowing you to shape your degree to prepare you for the career you want.
Designed for current and aspiring hospitality professionals, we allow our students the flexibility to tailor their coursework to the hospitality career path they desire. You’ll begin your degree program with coursework that lays the framework for understanding the business side of the hospitality industry, while also gaining a well-rounded education with arts & sciences courses that complement your studies.
After developing a solid business and management foundation, mold your degree to your desire by selecting from a number of electives that fit your desired career path, or choose one of three optional specializations in Food & Beverage Management, Hotel & Resort Management or Sustainable Tourism. If you decide to you want actual hands-on experience at a resort, feel free to take advantage of an optional College of Hospitality Management Internship, or obtain a global view of hospitality at the international level with a potential Study Abroad program. We give you the tools to customize your degree program to the level that you want.
At Johnson & Wales University, we know hospitality, with over 50 years of experience developing leaders in the industry and a reputation for excellence among employers, with a network of industry connections including Marriott, Aramark and Wyndham Hotels & Resorts (just to name a few). As an institution focused on continuously responding to changes in the industry, we give our students applicable knowledge to meet the ever-changing needs in the hospitality sector, giving our students relevant expertise in this dynamic field.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Hospitality Management.
What You'll Learn
Use the major concepts, skills and values of the hospitality industry to address industry problems within diverse hospitality operations.
Communicate effectively to diverse stakeholders in the hospitality industry.
Use decision support tools to resolve guest service issues and facilitate organizational process changes.
Apply financial reasoning and performance analysis to optimize performance within hospitality operations.
Take the next step in your hospitality management career with an Undergraduate bachelor’s degree in hospitality management online from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
New! Earn your Bachelor’s sooner with our streamlined degree option
Beginning in Fall 2025, you will have the opportunity to complete your Hospitality Management bachelor’s degree in less time with a
streamlined, 90-credit curriculum
. This new career-focused option allows you to complete your degree sooner and save on tuition while still receiving the same quality education and hands-on experiences JWU is known for. If you prefer a fuller curriculum, the traditional 120-credit degree option is also available.
Transfer credits for this program will be limited, as students must meet residency requirements and follow the curriculum plan outlined below. For questions about transfer credits, please contact
[email protected]
.  As with any program, actual time to completion depends on the number of courses you take each semester.
VIEW THE CAREER-FOCUSED CURRICULUM (PDF)
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Undergraduate Rates 2024 - 2025
$495
Per Credit Hours
$1,485
Per 3 Credit Hours
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Are you eligible for a scholarship or a grant? Check out all your options and see if you qualify.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
Hospitality management specializations
Food and Beverage Management
Whether running a bar, restaurant, or hotel, a key component to your customers’ satisfaction involves developing a carefully curated dining experience that aligns with their expectations. The Food and Beverage Management specialization gives students the proficiency needed to manage the behind-the-scenes aspects involved in dining operations, including budgeting, inventory and personnel oversight.
With courses including food service operations, front of the house operations management, and more, you’ll gain the knowledge to successfully manage your staff and build a cost-effective food and cocktail menu while giving your guests an enjoyable experience they’ll want to return to.
Hotel and Resorts Management
The Hotel and Resorts specialization lays the foundation for students aspiring to a management-level career path within the hospitality industry. Whether you seek to manage operations at a hotel or resort, run a boutique hotel or bed-and-breakfast, or oversee a hospitality chain at the corporate level, this hotel and resort management degree specialization will give you the career insight and knowledge you need to succeed.
Learn from respected and connected experts, who understand and teach the many facets of the field. From studying courses centered around revenue management, international hotel development, hotel asset management and more, graduates will be well-versed in the industry and professionally prepared to excel in their careers.
Sustainable Tourism
With sustainability becoming an ever-important mantra within society, it is becoming increasingly critical for the tourism industry to develop best practices that allow travelers to enjoy the experiences at their destination with a clear conscience of how their presence impacts the environment. Our Sustainability Tourism specialization gives you the foundation to develop mindful decision-making that balances the needs of the globally-conscious traveler with the effect their travel has on the local environment and economy.
With this specialization focusing on tourism and hospitality management, you’ll study courses around food culture and tourism, international policies, tour management operations and more, giving you the know-how to give your guests an ethically responsible and enjoyable visit.
Online BACHELOR’S DEGREE IN HOSPITALITY MANAGEMENT Sample Courses
Coursework for your hospitality management degree online covers industry essentials in menu planning & cost control, hospitality strategic design and execution, hospitality sales and meeting management, dynamics of tourism and sustainability and more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Hospitality Courses
Course Title
Strategy and Improvement in the Hospitality Industry
Hospitality Sales and Meeting Management
Hospitality Strategic Marketing
Dynamics of Tourism and Sustainability
Food and Beverage Specialization Courses
Course Title
Front of the House Operations Management
Advanced Food & Beverage Operations and Planning
Beverage Operations Management
Hotel and Resorts Specialization Courses
Course Title
Sustainable Hotel Support Operations
International Hotel Operations, Development and Management
Resort, Vacation Ownership and Spa Management
Sustainable Tourism Specialization Courses
Course Title
Food Culture and Tourism
International Policies of Tourism
Destination Management Organization
Related Professional Studies
Course Title
Accounting for Hospitality Service Organizations
Financial Management for Hospitality Service Organizations
Hospitality Law
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your hospitality management degree online? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application.
If you’re ready for education that can position you for your next career move, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH A BS in hospitality management DEGREE?
Your JWU hospitality management degree positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in the hospitality industry. Graduates of this program have found employment in companies such as:
Hilton
Hyatt
Delaware North
Sodexo
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in hospitality. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.
x
Career Coach
CONTINUE TO CAREER COACH
You are now leaving Johnson & Wales’ (JWU) site and going to a site not operated by us. We are not responsible for the content or availability of any site other than our own. The information provided on the site is provided by Lightcast. Lightcast has indicated to us the information provided is fair and reasonable. We do not make any representations or warranties, nor do we accept liability or responsibility, as to the accuracy or use of the information. Additional links may also be provided, including those relating to employment opportunities.
You are responsible for performing due diligence, such as ensuring the listings are for actual jobs and that your private and personal information are protected, when using or relying on information from any site.