URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/associate/hospitality-management/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Associate Degrees
>
AS Hospitality Management
PROGRAM DETAILS
2 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Ready to take your hospitality career to the next level? With an online Associate of Science in Hospitality Management you can make the most of your hospitality expertise or gain entry to this field while you develop your approach to oversight within the hotel, dining, recreation and leisure service industries. With over 50 years of experience developing leaders and a global reputation for excellence by employers in the hospitality industry, an AS Hospitality Management degree from Johnson & Wales can open the door to future opportunities.
This online associate’s degree in hospitality management is designed for aspiring hospitality professionals, and gives you the management and operational skills you need to serve in many settings within hospitality and tourism. You’ll learn about the various segments within the hospitality industry, including tourism, hotels, food & beverage and meeting management. With your well-rounded knowledge, you can use your major and free electives to further explore areas of interest such as beverage appreciation, private club management, event management or food service operations.
Plus, after completing your degree, you can apply 100% of your credits toward a
Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management
here at Johnson & Wales University, also offered online to flexibly suit your needs and get your closer to your desired career.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Hospitality Management.
What You'll Learn
Apply the major concepts, skills, and values of the hospitality industry in managing day-to-day hospitality operations.
Apply the foundational skills and concepts necessary for career growth into a wide range of management positions.
Utilize logic and critical thinking skills in a hospitality environment to create solutions for guests and other stakeholders.
Take the next step in your hospitality management career with an online associate's degree in hospitality management from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Undergraduate Rates 2024 - 2025
$495
Per Credit Hours
$1,485
Per 3 Credit Hours
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Are you eligible for a scholarship or a grant? Check out all your options and see if you qualify.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for student financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
ONLINE ASSOCIATE DEGREE IN HOSPITALITY MANAGEMENT Sample Courses
Coursework for your associate degree in hospitality management online covers the foundational skills you will need for the hospitality industry, in areas such as tourism, hotels, food & beverage, and meeting management. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Hospitality Major Courses
Course Title
Technology in the Hospitality Industry
Managing the Hotel Guest Experience
Human Resources Management in Service Organizations
Dynamics of Tourism and Sustainability
Hospitality Major Electives
Course Title
The Gaming Industry
Exploring the Private Club Industry
Food Culture and Tourism
World Geography for Tourism and Hospitality
Communications Foundations Courses
Course Title
Rhetoric & Composition I
Rhetoric & Composition II
Communications Skills
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your associate degree in hospitality management online? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process.
If you’re ready for a degree that can position you for your next career move, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH AN online associate in hospitality management DEGREE?
Your JWU associate degree in hospitality management online positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in hospitality management. Explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in the hospitality industry, such as the following:
Meeting, Convention, and Event Planners
Concierge
Lodging Manager
Travel Guide
Hotel, Motel, and Resort Desk Clerk
Food Service Manager
First-Line Supervisors of Entertainment and Recreation Workers
Loss Prevention Manager
First-Line Supervisors of Passenger-Atttendants
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.