URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/graduate/hospitality/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Master’s
>
MBA Hospitality
PROGRAM DETAILS
2 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
We Know Hospitality.
Johnson & Wales University is recognized as a trusted and respected institution across the globe. We’ve spent years making a name for ourselves in the industry and have earned a reputation of excellence among hospitality employers such as Marriott, Compass Group, Darden and more.
Compared to other MBA programs offered online, our MBA – Hospitality is industry-specific, which means that as a graduate of this program, you’ll be positioned to advance your career because your education, curriculum and experience are tailored to what employers are looking for in hospitality-management positions.
This 100% online program is designed for busy hospitality professionals like you. You want to advance your career, but you can’t put it on hold to go back to school. That’s why our flexible online MBA – Hospitality allows you to study anytime, anywhere with no campus attendance required.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Business and College of Hospitality Management
.
What You'll Learn
Gather, interpret and analyze research to inform decision making at operational and strategic levels of an organization.
Use advanced communication skills and awareness of cultural differences in global and domestic business interactions.
Analyze problems from a diverse perspective, propose effective solutions and evaluate the impact of executive decisions.
Assess and evaluate business entities taking into account cross-functional environments as they affect ethical decision making in domestic and global organizations.
Examine and analyze social, multicultural and environmental issues and their impacts upon managerial practices in the global hospitality industry.
Take the next step in your hospitality career with an online MBA in hospitality from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Graduate Rates 2024-2025
$842
Per Credit Hour
$2,526
Per 3 Credit Hours
Scholarships Available for Eligible Students
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Learn more about how you may qualify for a scholarship, including our 20% Graduate Success Scholarship.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
ONLINE MBA IN HOSPITALITY Sample Courses
Coursework for your hospitality MBA online blends business management and hospitality essentials, developing expertise in event leadership and planning, franchising and licensing, hospitality and tourism at global scale and more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Hospitality Courses
Course Title
Hospitality and Tourism Global Issues
Franchising and Licensing
Event Leadership and Planning
Information Technology in Hospitality and Tourism
MBA Core Courses
Course Title
Financial Management
Operations Management
Effective Leadership
Strategic Marketing
Business Foundations Courses
Course Title
Business Fundamentals
Quantitative Methods in Business
NOTE: With regards to Business Foundation courses, upon receipt of your transcripts, your prior coursework will be evaluated to determine the ability to waive out of these two courses. If you need to complete one or both of the foundation courses, you may take these courses as part of your program or test out of these courses via exam. Your dedicated admissions associate will discuss with you the option that will work best for you.
In addition, please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your hospitality MBA online? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application and no GRE or GMAT requirements.
If you already hold an undergraduate degree and you’re ready for more, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH AN MBA in Hospitality DEGREE?
Your JWU MBA with a concentration in hospitality offers the executive business competencies and strategic-thinking skills needed to pursue leadership roles throughout the hospitality industry. Graduates of this program have found employment in companies such as:
Marriott International
Hilton
Disney
Sodexo
Aramark
FLIK Hospitality Group
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in hospitality. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.
“A shy child when I immigrated to the US from Vietnam at 17, English became my second language. As a first-generation student, no one in my immediate family modeled how education could be a pathway to career success. I did not know how to unlock the door to my future. I cannot deny the benefits of studying and earning my MBA – Hospitality. As an immigrant, I did not expect to go this high in my education.”
– Yee Tran, ’24 MBA Hospitality
Read the Full Story