URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/undergraduate/human-resource-management/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Bachelor’s
>
BSBA Human Resource Management
PROGRAM DETAILS
4 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Are you ready to take your HR career to the next level? Build on your expertise and passion for serving your organization’s workforce through an online Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Human Resource Management that prepares you for oversight of key areas that impact employees, from training and development to benefits and compensation to labor relations and more.
This online human resources degree was designed with industry-relevant guidelines, including considerations from Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) and the Human Resource Certification Institute (HRCI).
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Business.
What You'll Learn
Apply the major concepts, skills and values of business administration.
Communicate effectively to diverse audiences, purposes and situations through a variety of professional methods within business administration.
Use decision-support tools to resolve contemporary business issues using ethical business practices.
Differentiate the functional areas of Human Resource Management at both the strategic and operational level.
Develop sound Human Resource Management theory addressing diversity management, ethical management and the impact of global forces.
Take the next step in your human resource management career with an online bachelor's degree in human resource management from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Undergraduate Rates 2024 - 2025
$495
Per Credit Hours
$1,485
Per 3 Credit Hours
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Are you eligible for a scholarship or a grant? Check out all your options and see if you qualify.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
ONLINE BACHELOR’S DEGREE IN HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT Sample Courses
Coursework for your bachelor of human resource management online covers HR management essentials, including organizational behavior, workforce planning and deployment, training and development, labor relations, and more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Human Resources Major Courses
Course Title
Workforce Planning and Deployment
Labor Relations
Compensation, Benefits, and Total Rewards
Training and Development
Business Foundations Courses
Course Title
Business Analytics
The Legal Environment of Business I
Human Resource Management
Marketing Foundations
Applied/Experiential Learning
Course
College of Business Internship
OR
Directed Experiential Education
OR
Study Abroad
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your online bachelor’s degree in human resource management? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process.
If you’re ready for a degree that can position you for your next career move, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH A BS in Human Resource management DEGREE?
Your JWU human resource management degree positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in human resources. Graduates of this program have found employment in companies such as:
Amazon
Fidelity Investments
ZipRecruiter
Morgan, Lewis, & Bockius LLP
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in human resources. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.