URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/undergraduate/liberal-studies/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Bachelor’s
>
BS Liberal Studies
PROGRAM DETAILS
4 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Aspire to a broaden your career path? With our online Bachelor of Science in Liberal Studies degree, you can cultivate knowledge and expertise across a number of fields to prepare to make an impact in areas from education to management and more. This online bachelor’s of liberal studies online develops the analytical, communications and agile-thinking skills that transfer seamlessly across a number of industries. You’ll be exposed to challenging coursework designed to help you learn the skills you need for a wide range of career options.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s John Hazen White College of Arts & Sciences.
What You'll Learn
Apply oral and written rhetorical strategies to communicate complex arguments.
Apply appropriate disciplinary criteria to examine complex issues, analyze arguments, conduct credible research, solve problems, make ethical decisions and create original ideas and/or approaches.
Synthesize and apply knowledge from multiple perspectives to evaluate complex issues and address real-world problems.
Critically examine and interpret the complexities of human culture, expression and/or behavior using the theories and methods of various disciplines in the humanities, social sciences and natural sciences.
Take the next step in your career with an online liberal studies degree from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Undergraduate Rates 2024 - 2025
$495
Per Credit Hours
$1,485
Per 3 Credit Hours
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Are you eligible for a scholarship or a grant? Check out all your options and see if you qualify.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
ONline BACHELOR OF LIBERAL STUDIES Sample Courses
Coursework for your bachelor’s in liberal studies online covers the foundational skills you will need for a number of industries, in areas such as social sciences, math, humanities science and foreign language. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Liberal Studies Major Courses
Course Title
One ART, HIST, LIT, PHIL, or REL course 2000 level or higher
One BIO, CHM, PHY or SCI course 1000 level or higher
One ECON, PSCI, PSYC, or SOC course 2000 level or higher
3 Foreign Language credits as determined by language placement
Liberal Studies Major Focus
Course Title
Arts & Culture
One ART, HIST, LIT, PHIL, REL, or SOC course 2000 level or higher
Four ART, HIST, LIT, PHIL, REL, or SOC courses 3000 level or higher
OR
Science & Society
One MATH course 1000 level or higher
Four BIO, CHM, ECON, PHY, PSCI, PSYC, SCI, or SOC courses 3000 level or higher
Applied/Experiential Learning
Course Title
College of Arts & Sciences Internship
OR
Directed Experiential Education
OR
Undergraduate Laboratory and Field Research
OR
Undergraduate Research Experience
OR
Study Abroad
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your online liberal studies degree? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process.
If you’re ready for a degree that can position you for your next career move, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH A BS in liberal studies DEGREE?
Your JWU liberal studies degree online positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in general studies. According to the
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics Occupational Outlook Handbook
, this background is valued by a number of career paths, including the following:
Educational instruction
Management
Business and financial operations
Sales and related occupations
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.
“JWU has an amazing support system for their online students. My advisor was wonderful and was always in communication with me and helped me with any issues that arose. The professors were very responsive, and I truly felt that they cared about their students’ success.”
– Kara Morrissette, ’18