URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/fashion-merchandising-and-retailing-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Bachelor of Science
Fashion Merchandising & Retailing
Program Overview
Student Experiences
Learn by Doing
Fashion Lab
Courses
Faculty
In this section
Where Business Meets Fashion
There’s more to the fashion industry than modeling and designing. How do retailers know which products to stock or trends to jump on? There’s a global network standing behind the fashion industry influencing what’s for sale. Our Fashion Merchandising & Retailing program will teach you how to choose the best looks, trends, colors, silhouettes and more to create a strong product assortment.
At
JWU Providence
, you’ll also learn about the economics involved in buying and selling fashion merchandise, how to forecast future trends in the industry, and the strategies needed to display and sell merchandise effectively. You’ll be prepared for careers in merchandise management, sales management, visual merchandising, fashion marketing, fashion forecasting and more.
Choose from two specializations:
Merchandise buying
Fashion marketing & visual merchandising
Our
location in the heart of Providence
means you’re steps away from eclectic neighborhoods filled with chic boutiques, fresh streetwear apparel and vintage shops.
Request Information
Loading...
Student Experiences
Neely Connor ’25 Explores NYC Fashion
Fashion Merchandising & Retailing major Neely Connor ’25 joined the program’s annual New York City trip where students get an exclusive behind-the-scenes look at the headquarters of several fashion brands. “It’s hard to choose a favorite part of the trip since each place we visited was super cool in its own way! Going backstage at the Lion King show may have won though because it’s unlike anything I’ve ever seen before.”
Read Full Story
Chase Menendez ’22: Designing His Future in Fashion
Chase Menendez ’22 prepared for his dream job through connections with alumni, real-world projects and faculty mentorships. “The fashion industry is constantly changing, and everybody has the opportunity to be creative and show who they really are through the collections they create and the clothes they make.”
Fashion in Action
Hands-on learning
is at the core of our fashion program — and built right into your coursework. Not only will you take courses in the Retail and Fashion Lab, you’ll also be encouraged to get experience in the field through an internship with a business partner or
Study Abroad program
.
No matter what you choose, you’ll graduate with a portfolio of projects and experiences to showcase on your résumé.
What You’ll Experience in the Fashion Program
Paticipate in exclusive site visits to local boutiques, national headquarters and major shopping hubs like New York City and Boston
Gain practical experience in our state-of-the-art Retail and Fashion Lab
Engage with industry professionals through guest lectures and mentorships
Explore global perspectives with Study Abroad opportunities
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Johnson & Wales Providence (@jwuprovidence)
Retail & Fashion Lab
The Retail and Fashion Lab in Xavier Academic Complex creates a simulated showroom and retail environment for students to learn. You’ll practice styling, merchandising and promotions. You’ll also use this space to analyze and compare fabrics, create mood boards and lead presentations.
Launch Experience
Sample Courses
Introduction to Retail and Fashion
The Textile Industry
Retail and Fashion Lab
Forecasting
Sustainability in the Fashion Industry
Retail Math
Strategic Planning in the Fashion Industry
Fashion Writing
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
For a full course listing, visit the JWU Catalog:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Merchandise Buyer
Social Media Coordinator
Brand Manager
Product Development
Visual Merchandiser
Showroom Coordinator
Sales Representative
Fashion Forecaster
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Patricia Fisher
Associate Professor and Program Lead, Management
Patricia Fisher is currently one of the lead faculty in the Fashion Merchandising and Retailing Program. She focuses heavily on hands-on learning projects in all her classes.
Sara Jablon-Roberts
Professor
Sara Jablon-Roberts's career in academia began with costume design, primarily for dance and theater. Jablon-Roberts is passionate about leading students through the discovery of the many and varied aspects of clothing.
Kristen Regine
Professor
Kristen Regin's research interests lie in the fields of Generation Y, consumer behavior and retail atmospherics. She serves on the board of the Advertising, Marketing and PR Club of RI.
Related Programs
Business Administration
In this program, you’ll learn about every level of an organization — from accounting and human resources to marketing and business analytics.
Marketing & Advertising
In this program, you’ll explore marketing analysis, strategy and communications, international selling, consumer behavior, brand design and so much more.
Entrepreneurship
You’ll develop the skills to start a new business venture as a small business owner, revitalize an existing organization or become a corporate entrepreneur in an extensive variety of industries.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Faculty Contact
Patricia Fisher
Associate Professor & Faculty Lead
Fashion Merchandising & Retailing Program, College of Business
401-598-1397
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.