URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/graphic-design-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Bachelor of Science
Graphic Design
Overview
3-Year Degree
Learn by Doing
Labs
Courses
Student Spotlight
Faculty
In this section
Designing with Purpose
If you love to create visually captivating illustrations and dream of inspiring others through your work — this is the place for you. You can pursue your passion for graphic design in the heart of the Creative Capital in Rhode Island. Providence earned this nickname for its colorful landscape of murals, numerous galleries and museums, large population of artists, and a thriving job market for creative professions. The best part is, Johnson & Wales University can put you in the middle of it all.
In our specialized design labs and studios, you’ll learn to solve visual communication problems using design and digital tools, including current design software and hardware. You’ll narrow your studies after the first two years by choosing to focus on either print or user experience design. It’s how we help you find your career path.
“If I can put one word on my general experience, it would definitely be holistic,” says Noah Fye '23, a recent graduate of the Graphic Design program. “Everything about the design department is designed to get you to be a professional. Everything comes in and it's all focused on making you the best designer you can be.”
Ready to become the best graphic designer you can be? Keep scrolling to discover how you can do it at JWU Providence.
Request Information
Loading...
New! Choose a Three-Year or Four-Year Bachelor’s Degree
You now have the option to earn your Graphic Design bachelor’s degree in either three or four years. Our new
Career-Focused Degree Program
lets you complete your degree in just three years with a streamlined, 90-credit curriculum. This option allows you to enter the workforce sooner and
save on tuition
while still receiving the same quality education and hands-on experiences JWU is known for. If you prefer a more traditional pace, the four-year degree path is also available, offering the same rigorous preparation for your future career.
View the Career-Focused Curriculum (PDF)
Experiential Education
At JWU, we’re all about putting your learning into action and offering you the opportunity to work on real projects that go beyond the classroom. Whether you design for clients in the community on Design Team or collaborate with other JWU programs on exciting projects in a
Directed Experiential Education
course, you’ll be creating work that makes a difference and that many people will get to see and enjoy.
Why Study Graphic Design at JWU?
You’ll build a portfolio of increasingly sophisticated design work.
Develop a focused identity that carries through all your presented materials, and identiﬁes you as an independent graphic designer.
Hone your graphic design skills by creating, editing and presenting visual collateral that includes the design of branding, logos, packages, publications, photography, video, typography, websites and user interface experiences.
Gain industry experience by creating, managing and presenting design projects to actual clients from community-based organizations in the greater Providence area.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Johnson & Wales Providence (@jwuprovidence)
Design Labs and Classrooms
The Bowen Gallery
Student work is displayed year-round in this beautiful gallery space in the John J. Bowen Center for Science & Innovation, the same building where you will also take your design courses.
The Innovation Lab
This unique lab is open to students from any major and includes everything from scanners to the latest fabrication equipment, including 3D printers, laser engravers, micro mills, and vinyl cutters. It’s a great place for Graphic Design students to bring their ideas to life!
Launch Graphic Design Gallery
Explore The Bowen Gallery
Sample Courses
Brand Identity Design & Development
Image Editing & Design
Introduction to 3D Design
Package Design
Typography
Wayfinding & Environmental Graphics
User Experience & Content Design
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
Explore the full JWU Catalog course listing:
Providence
Career Possibilities
Creative Director
Creative Design Specialist
Editorial Designer
Package Designer
Visual Designer
User Interface/Experience (UI/UX) Designer
Web Designer
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Powered by Purpose: Ally Buckley ’24
“When I leave JWU, I will be prepared for whatever comes next — I will leave with a portfolio and a personal brand,” says Graphic Design student Ally Buckley '24. The recent graduate shares what she loves about the program and her excitement to continue exploring visual communication.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Deana Marzocchi
Associate Professor
My specialty is the experiential ed courses that we offer students. They meet with clients, develop project briefs, and go through all the phases of design creating logos, print design, web design and video.
Jonathan Harris
Jonathan Harris
Harris has worked his professional life to create walkable and bikeable cities. He teaches the process, management and tools of design.
Karyn Jimenez-Elliott
Associate Professor
Jimenez-Elliott is a project-based teacher who brings her industry experience to life in the classroom through her teaching style and assigned projects. She is passionate about design for social impact.
Related Programs
Media & Communication
Whether your passion is film, music, television, news, photography, or any aspect of the media landscape, you’ll explore the power media has to shape the way we live through this program.
Digital Marketing & Social Media
Learn how to develop effective social and digital marketing strategies and reach audiences with content that generates interactions on platforms such as Facebook, Snapchat, Instagram and YouTube.
Marketing & Advertising
Improve your communication skills, gain a deep understanding of consumer behavior and dive into the world of marketing campaigns and strategies. In this program, you’ll learn marketing foundations, copywriting, art direction and more.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Faculty Contact
Providence
Deana Marzocchi
401-598-2514
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.