URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/food-and-beverage-entrepreneurship-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Bachelor of Science
Food & Beverage Entrepreneurship
Program Overview
Launch a Venture
Sample Courses
Contact
In this section
Apply Now
Request Information
Visit JWU
Majors & Degrees
Minors
Where Food Meets Entrepreneurship
Entrepreneurship isn’t just about having a great idea — it’s also about how you tell the story and connect with your audience. Our Food & Beverage Entrepreneurship bachelor’s degree program prepares you for a career as a food‐based innovator.
This program will teach you what it takes to launch your own venture, from developing a business plan to managing resources, marketing and growth. Courses in entrepreneurship combine with traditional business classes outlining strategies for kickstarting your own business, joining an emerging venture, or working as a corporate entrepreneur in food‐ or beverage‐related industries.
Work with expert faculty, as well as business and community leaders, at our
Larry Friedman Center for Entrepreneurship
, where you will find the resources to help support making your business ideas a reality. Experiential opportunities provide you with the practical skills to identify opportunities and solve problems that you’d encounter launching a business.
Individual states may require specific licensing or professional certification in addition to earning a degree in order to practice in the field. Learn more via the Catalog’s
Licensure & Professional Certification Disclosures
. Admissions is contingent upon meeting the
technical standards
for this program.
Request Information
Loading...
Food’s Next Big Idea
JWU’s Future Food All-Stars Challenge is an annual pitch competition that puts students’ culinary expertise and entrepreneurship skills to the test. This year’s big ideas united food and sustainability — with all 3 teams capitalizing on marketplace opportunities.
Future Food All-Stars
Bring Business Ideas to Life
At JWU, the resources to support your business idea are never far away. Our faculty bring real-world expertise and practical know-how to help you shape your big idea into a tangible concept.
Throughout the program, learn what it takes to start an innovative food-related venture, including:
Using the art of the pitch to sell a concept to potential investors.
Developing a viable business plan.
Running a market test of your product as part of the Entrepreneurship Seminar capstone.
Refining your idea at the
Larry Friedman Center for Entrepreneurship
, JWU Providence’s business incubator space.
Pitching your business idea at
SharkFest
or the
Future Food All-Stars Competition
.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Johnson & Wales Providence (@jwuprovidence)
Sample Courses
Pitching & Planning New Ventures
Introduction to Food Product Development
Change and Innovation Management
Small Business Management
Marketing for Entrepreneurs
Entrepreneurship Seminar
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits. Explore the full JWU Catalog course listing:
Providence
Career Possibilities
Restaurateur
Food/Beverage Marketer
Food/Beverage Sales Professional
Food/Beverage Business Owner
Food/Beverage Distributor
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Mark Soliday
Associate Instructor
Mark Soliday is an associate instructor of baking & pastry arts with more than 30 years of industry experience — 20 as an executive pastry chef in hotels.
Ezenwayi Amaechi Ejiribe
Associate Professor
Assistant Professor Amaechi is a result-oriented researcher, trainer, lecturer, author and entrepreneur.
Faculty Contact
Providence
Jennifer Broderick, Ed.D., CHE
401-598-2830
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.