URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/food-beverage-industry-management-2plus2-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Bachelor of Science
Food & Beverage Industry Management 2+2
Program Overview
Learn by Doing
Labs
Sample Courses
Faculty
Contact
In this section
Learn to Manage a Food-Related Business
Want to make your mark in the dynamic, increasingly sophisticated food and beverage industry? If so, you’ll need to be more than just a great chef. This unique 2+2 program is designed to help you sharpen your culinary or baking & pastry arts expertise while developing the business, managerial and critical thinking skills you’ll need to succeed.
Your first two years build your technical foundation, while your junior and senior years advance your skills in operations management, beverage appreciation, strategic management and more.
Career-Ready Skills
Learn industry‐specific business, managerial, front‐of‐the‐house and leadership skills to expand your career prospects far beyond the kitchen. The curriculum emphasizes accounting, management, finance, marketing and human resources to give you the tools to run a food‐related business. The program culminates in managing a full‐service bistro with high‐level standards.
Admissions is contingent upon meeting the
technical standards
for this program. Individual states may require specific licensing or professional certification in addition to earning a degree in order to practice in the field. Learn more via the Catalog’s
Licensure & Professional Certification Disclosures
.
Request Information
Loading...
Mentorship & More
For Rence Loboncz '23, transferring to JWU was easier than expected — and the payoff was immediate. “I immediately felt so connected to the school because instructors took the time to get to know me on a personal level.”
Rence’s Transfer Experience
Bistro 61 and Beyond
Advanced Food Service Operations Management, also known as FSM4061, is an upper-level capstone course that tests the food service management skills of senior-level students. Located in the Xavier Complex, Bistro 61 is set up like a working restaurant where student-led teams are responsible for designing and orchestrating the menu and guest experience.
Other opportunities for strengthening professional expertise include:
Taking part in a Directed Experiential Education (DEE) opportunity, internship or Study Abroad option, depending on available credits
Participating in annual competitions like the
Future Food All-Stars Challenge
or
Wander & Found Craft Cocktail Competition
Attending trade shows, conferences and thought leadership events
Networking with industry leaders and prominent alums at JWU-hosted events like the
Food & Beverage Technology Symposium
or
FIT Symposium
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Johnson & Wales Providence (@jwuprovidence)
Hospitality Labs & Classrooms
Bistro 61
Where the classroom becomes a restaurant. Students develop the menus, manage the front and back of the house, recommend wine pairings and serve the guests. Guests are JWU students, faculty and staff who provide feedback for the students.
Launch Experience
Bigelow Beverage Lab
Discover the world of beverages through tasting and experimentation in this modern facility. Students conduct tastings of beverages like water, tea, coffee, beer, wine or spirits in order to learn the techniques of sensory perception, how to conduct professional flavor profiles and how to pair food with all types of beverages.
Launch Experience
Sample Courses
Advanced Food Service Operations Management
Beverage Appreciation
Beverage Operations Management
Food and Beverage Technology & Application Systems
Food and Beverage Strategies and Logistics
Hospitality Law
Hospitality Strategic Marketing
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits. Explore the JWU Catalog listing:
Food & Beverage Industry Management
Career Possibilities
Beverage Manager
Food Service Manager
Catering Manager
Corporate Food & Beverage Operator
Food Service Revenue Manager
Hospitality Manager
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Food & Beverage Management Faculty
Michael Sabitoni
Associate Professor & Dept. Chair, Food & Beverage  + Travel & Tourism Studies
Michael Sabitoni, M.S., serves as the department chairperson for both the International Travel/Tourism Studies and the Food & Beverage Management departments.
Nicholas Makris
Associate Professor
Makris has been in the restaurant industry for more than 20 years, and is passionate about culinary arts and the service industry in general.
Brian Van Gyzen
Associate Professor
Van Gyzen brings 40-plus years of restaurant experience — including 19 years in management — to his classroom teaching.
Related Graduate Programs
Clinical Nutrition & Dietetics
The innovative 16-month Master of Science in Clinical Nutrition & Dietetics builds upon JWU’s strong tradition in culinary nutrition and dietetics.
Food Innovation & Technology
This master’s degree program explores the complexities of a global food system and provides an opportunity for students to analyze the impact food has on people, industries and the environment.
Master of Arts in Teaching
JWU’s MAT program prepares graduates to apply for certification in the areas of elementary education/elementary special education, business education/secondary special education or culinary arts education.
Faculty Contact
Providence
Michael Sabitoni
401-598-4639
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.