URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/accounting-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Bachelor of Science
Accounting
Program Overview
Student Spotlight
Learn by Doing
Courses
Faculty
In this section
Why JWU Accounting?
Do you use logic to solve puzzles? Are you detail-oriented? If you love facts and figures, you have the analytical mind of a JWU Accounting major — and you could be a critical component of organizational decision-making. From small non-profits to big corporations, agencies need accurate, knowledgeable accountants who can interpret data, evaluate risks, recognize cost savings and ensure compliance across functions. Through the Accounting program at
JWU Providence
, you could become that champion.
Here, you’ll be guided by professors with years of industry experience and multiple professional certifications. As practitioners, they’ll help you gain hands-on experience you’ll put into practice — whether you’re volunteering to help the underserved with their taxes, getting your foot in a door as an intern or taking on reporting and accounting roles within our student-run university investment fund. Through the faculty connections you’ll make at JWU, you’ll be mentored by professionals in the public, private, nonprofit and government sectors. Meanwhile, student clubs such as the
JWU Accounting Association
and the
JWU Finance & Investment Academy
(FIA) will allow you to network with like-minded peers.
Expand your skills by pursuing your choice of more than two dozen minors including cybersecurity, economics, finance, marketing, leadership studies, global studies, media & communication studies and human resource management to complement your Accounting degree. Our alumni have forged careers ranging from partner and practice leader at Financial Advisory Services Group to senior financial consultant at CVS to senior associate at PwC.
Request Information
Loading...
Balancing More Than Numbers
Hailey Erickson '23, 24 MBA gained valuable skills helping people prepare their taxes in JWU’s Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program and working with JWU’s Wildcat Investment Value Fund (WIVF) — plus got a head start on her MBA through JWU’s accelerated master’s program. She reflects on how her experience as a JWU Accounting student-athlete helped prepare her for her future.
How Marquis Launched His Future at JWU
“At JWU,I got to meet employers firsthand, did an internship, got my résumé and went through many layers. I was fortunate to have the first job lined up right after school, which is something we want for all students. I like to think I was equally fortunate and prepared, and I expect that track to continue upward from here. I’ve gotten comfortable with saying I don’t know what's next, but I know it’s something I’ll be good at, ready for and excited about.”
– Marquis Cooper ’14, manager of global internal audit at Boston Scientific
Putting Accounting and Auditing Skills to Work
You’ll have many opportunities for academic and cultural experiences related to your studies — and you can apply free elective credit to them! Participate in a
Directed Experiential Education
initiative. Intern at a local firm. Study abroad. Help manage our successful JWU Wildcat Investment Value Fund, investing some of the university’s actual endowment. Join our IRS Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) team to help individuals in the community file their taxes.
In this program, you will:
Learn how to apply the major concepts, skills and values of the accounting profession while communicating effectively with diverse audiences.
Understand how to identify, analyze and resolve ethical issues and use decision-support tools to solve problems and facilitate organizational practices.
Apply free elective credit to options ranging from Directed Experiential Education to internships to study abroad.
Gain a solid foundation in accounting theory and practice as well as in the areas of business, communication and general studies.
Continue Your Education Through Johnson & Wales
Get your master’s faster through JWU’s signature accelerated master’s program,
J2
, by starting on coursework toward an MBA or M.S. degree your senior year — saving you time and money.
Sample Courses
Federal Taxes
Cost Accounting
Auditing
Accounting Information Systems
Managerial Accounting
Business Analytics
Introduction to Business and Management
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
Explore the full JWU Catalog course listing:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Financial accountant
Tax examiner/revenue agent
Management accountant
Financial analyst
Tax accountant
Budget analyst
Auditor
Forensic accountant
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Meet Our Faculty
Elizabeth Cannata
Associate Professor
Cannata prides herself on involving students in the learning process and guiding them on the path to successful careers.
Tim Howes
Associate Professor and Faculty Director of MBA Program
As an educator with a 20+ year track record of creating success at emerging companies, Howes has a passion for improving organizations and their people.
Barbara Norris
Associate Professor
In her teaching, Norris aims to help students understand the importance of accounting in reaching their own career goals.
Related Programs
Finance
In the Finance program, you’ll have the chance to develop and apply both specialized technical skills and soft skills that are crucial for success in today’s financial industry and the constantly changing world of business.
Business Administration
If you know you want a career in the world of business but aren’t quite sure what that career is, you’ll have the opportunity to see what you enjoy most from a wide array of foundational and free elective courses.
Business Studies
Earn your bachelor’s degree in half the time (only 2 years, if you meet the necessary prerequisites and requirements) through our accelerated Business Studies bachelor’s degree program.
Faculty Contact
Patricia Conn Ryan, DBA, CPA
Professor and Department Chair
Department of Accountancy & Finance
401-598-1866
Email
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.