URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/culinary-arts-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Bachelor of Science
Culinary Arts
Program Overview
Learn by Doing
Sample Courses
Related Programs
In this section
Become a Culinary Leader
Why study Culinary Arts at JWU? You’ll be positioned to pursue the growing range of culinary careers — locally or around the world!
Through our bachelor of science degree program in Culinary Arts, you’ll learn the craft of culinary arts in top-notch labs under the guidance of expert chef-instructors.
Focus on the fundamentals of food preparation before delving deeper into into specialized industry production environments like garde manger, hot labs, pastry and bakeshops, and wine and beverage labs.
You’ll also learn the industry’s business side, from menu costing to leadership skills. Then put these skills into practice through a required term of experiential education working in industry.
When you graduate, you’ll be prepared to lead in production environments anywhere in the world.
Admissions is contingent upon meeting the
technical standards
for this program.
Request Information
Loading...
Next-Level Culinary
If cooking is your passion, a JWU education will help you take your skills to the next level. Turn what you love into a career.
How JWU Prepares You
This exceptional program offers opportunities to practice current industry trends and strengthen your professional competencies, including advanced food safety, food service managerial skills and effective communication.
Ways to polish your career-ready skills include:
Exploring diverse food-related topics like brewing arts, farm-to-table cooking and nutrition through elective credits.
Taking part in a
Directed Experiential Education
(DEE) opportunity, based on project availability with community partners and student eligibility.
Gaining valuable applied experience through an advanced internship.
Polishing your culinary business plan through by participating in JWU’s
Future Food All-Stars Challenge
.
Sample Courses
Corporate Dining Concepts
Chef-Driven Fine Dining Concepts
Advanced Food Safety, HACCP and Special Processes
Supervision for Food Service Professionals
Culinary Capstone: The Professional Kitchen
CFIT Advanced Internship
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits. Visit the JWU Catalog for a full course listing:
Culinary Arts (BS)
Career Possibilities
Corporate Dining Chef
Chef de Cuisine
Food Editor/Writer
Private Chef
Executive Chef/Head Chef
Institutional Food Service Manager
Performance Chef
Food Broker/Buyer
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers. For more information, review the JWU Catalog’s
Licensure & Professional Certification Disclosures
.
Featured Culinary Arts Faculty
Jeremy Houghton
Associate Professor
Chef Houghton '93, '17 MBA, has an extensive background in food service, including as a chef, consultant and manager. In 2023, he mentored Chantelle Gonsalves '23 in the Young Chef Olympiad — and she took home a Top 10 finish.
Valeria Molinelli
Senior Instructor
Born in Peru, Department Chair Molinelli has worked extensively in the front of the house, research and development (R&D), catering, and event planning. She holds a master’s degree in teaching and a Certified Executive Chef (CEC) certification.
Michael Makuch
Associate Professor
With an extensive foundation in community nutrition, Makuch believes that food is the vehicle to a journey whose story can be told on a plate.
RELATED PROGRAMS
Food Innovation & Technology
This master’s program explores the complexities of our global food system and provides an opportunity for students to analyze the impact food has on people, industries and the environment.
Clinical Nutrition & Dietetics
Registered Dietitian Nutritionists (RD/RDNs) have the skills to improve patient health outcomes through the strategic application of Medical Nutrition Therapy (MNT). Our master’s program in Clinical Nutrition & Dietetics (MSCND) trains the next generation of dietetics leaders.
Baking & Pastry Arts
This bachelor’s program teaches students crucial skills for becoming a pastry professional, including menu costing, food safety standards, purchasing and budgeting.
Faculty Contact
Providence
Jeremy Houghton, MBA
Associate Professor and Department Chair
401-598-1801
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.