URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/nursing-accelerated-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Accelerated Bachelor of Science
Nursing
In this section
Nursing at JWU Providence
Nursing at JWU Charlotte
Program Overview
Full time for 16 months • Cohort Model • Scholarships Available
Charlotte and Providence Start Dates: Jan 6, 2025 (Spring) • May 5, 2025 (Summer) • Aug 25, 2025 (Fall)
Get More Info
|
Apply
|
Program Structure & Outcomes
|
Facilities
|
Sample Courses
|
Tuition
|
Prerequisites & Frequently Asked Questions
|
Technical Standards
JWU is excited to announce our new Accelerated Second Degree Bachelor of Science in Nursing (ABSN), an accelerated program designed for individuals who already hold an earned bachelor’s degree or higher and wish to pursue nursing as a career. The ABSN program is aligned with the university’s current strategic plan and is designed to help address the nationwide nursing shortage.
Nursing courses will be completed over four sequential, full-time semesters during this 16-month program, which is offered at JWU’s Providence, Rhode Island and Charlotte, North Carolina campuses.
The “cohort model” means that the small group you start with (your “cohort”) stays together through the duration of the program, forming a close bond and growing as practitioners together.
The university’s decades of hospitality and culinary excellence provide the foundation for JWU’s patient-centered, empathetic, and holistic approach to healthcare education.
Request Program Info
Complete the signup form below to receive program updates and other information about our Nursing program. Choose your campus preference: Providence or Charlotte.
Throughout the admissions process, you’ll receive personalized support from a dedicated enrollment counselor to guide you and help answer your questions. Filling out this form is also a way to connect with an enrollment counselor and verify your eligibility for the program.
REQUEST INFO
Apply to JWU’s Nursing Program
Applications are now open via NursingCAS for Providence and Charlotte. To apply:
Complete the online application process through NursingCAS for Spring 2025, Summer 2025 and Fall 2025 start dates. Include the application fee.
Request official college transcripts from each attended institution be sent to NursingCAS.
APPLY VIA NURSINGCAS
Unlock Your Passion for Healthcare in a Team-Based Environment
Interprofessional education (IPE) is a cornerstone of JWU’s
College of Health & Wellness
, and it has proven effective for setting students up for success in a team-based, cooperative workplace.
What does this mean for you?
As healthcare becomes more reliant on technology and big data to inform treatment and management modalities, team-based competencies have become crucial for delivering effective, patient-centered care.
JWU’s program emphasizes the interdisciplinary and interprofessional connections between our health-focused majors so that students can see how the same concept is applied in different areas. Our students are educated alongside the colleagues they will ultimately work with once they graduate — an approach designed to stretch their ability to see things from different perspectives and enable them to be better clinicians and practitioners.
“The program aims fill the theory-practice gap, enabling our students to be ready to meet the challenges of today’s ever-changing healthcare industry,” notes Kiley Medeiros, interim program director for the Providence ABSN. “We are able to offer multi-disciplinary, interprofessional, simulation, and various hands-on clinical experiences to prepare our students to enter the healthcare workforce as a new registered nurse, and ultimately improve health outcomes.”
The program culminates in clinical rotations that provide hands-on experience and exposure to different specialties in healthcare, including pediatrics, obstetrics, acute care, mental health and community health. From working with healthcare professionals to understanding the complexities of delivering care as a team, it is a great way to apply and sharpen the skills learned as part of the Nursing foundation at JWU.
JWU Welcomes New Nursing Cohort
At the end of August, JWU leaders joined healthcare professionals from across the state and JWU’s 32 brand-new nursing students to unveil the nursing facilities that are home to the program.
“When we made the decision to pursue a nursing program, we knew we had to provide our students with top-of-the line facilities and equipment to meet our high standard of academic excellence,” Providence Campus President Marie Bernardo-Sousa said at the event.
Read the Story
The program aims to fill the theory-practice gap, enabling our students to be ready to meet the challenges of today’s ever-changing healthcare industry.
KILEY MEDEIROS
ABSN Program Mission
The mission of JWU’s Nursing program is to prepare graduates for professional nursing roles in an ever-changing healthcare environment and global community while practicing intellectual curiosity that promotes lifelong learning.
ABSN Program Philosophy
Nursing care and nursing education require competence to meet the needs of a diverse and ever-fluid healthcare and academic environment. These competencies require nurses and educators to continuously expand their underlying knowledge and skill base to allow for the acceptance and awareness of new evidence-based practices and approaches to client care that are diverse and inclusive to all.
We reach these competencies through opportunities for our students, graduates, and faculty to engage in real-world learning opportunities focused on interprofessional relationships, assisting clients of all health populations, socio-economic/educational levels, and age groups to manage their health status with respect, dignity, and purpose.
How JWU’s Program Is Structured
JWU’s program design is based on the American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN)’s
2021 Essentials
, which broadly defines the following 10 domains of competence:
• Knowledge for Nursing Practice
• Person-Centered Care
• Population Health
• Scholarship for the Nursing Discipline
• Quality and Safety
• Interprofessional Partnerships
• Systems-Based Practice
• Informatics and Healthcare Technologies
• Professionalism
• Personal, Professional, and Leadership Development
Once completed, graduates of JWU’s program will be prepared to take the NCLEX-RN(r), the national licensing exam for registered nurses. (Individual states may require specific licensing or professional certification in addition to earning a degree in order to practice in the field. For more information, visit the JWU Catalog’s
Licensure & Professional Certification Disclosures
.)
Facilities
Providence and Charlotte Simulation Centers
Both campuses have fully functional simulation centers designed to mimic a wide range of medical scenarios across the patient lifespan. They can accommodate up to 40 students and faculty.
“Our students are going to be practice ready on day one, and that is one of the big focuses and goals of our program,” explains Medeiros.
Functional specs for the Centers are as follows:
7 adult beds, 1 obstetrics bed, 1 pediatric bed, and 2 bassinets
a high-fidelity suite that includes two high fidelity simulation rooms with a shared control room
a large simulation space for the practice of essential competencies
debriefing room(s) that can double as classrooms
Projection screens to allow students to observe, document and refine one-on-one interactions
JWU Providence’s Nursing program is located in the newly-renovated Johnson Hall. The second floor houses offices and meeting spaces, with the Simulation Center on the third floor.
A short walk away is the Academic Center, which serves as a hub of interprofessional experiential learning for students across the university’s College of Health & Wellness, including those in occupational therapy, dietetics and applied nutrition, exercise and sport science, health science and public health.
Charlotte’s Nursing program will be housed on the fifth floor of the Academic Center, adjacent to the Biology classrooms.
Simulation Center Technical Specs (Both Campuses)
8-Laerdal® Human Patient Simulators
1 High fidelity adult human simulator
1 High fidelity Women’s Health/Obstetrics human simulator
1 High fidelity Newborn human simulator
High fidelity Child human simulator
1 High fidelity Infant human simulator
3 Medium fidelity Adult human simulators
Laerdal® Sim-Cloud
Faculty access to multiple pre-programed case scenarios across the lifespan; used in conjunction with the human patient simulators
Laerdal® Sim-Capture
Audio-visual system used in the simulation center
Various Task Trainers
Products that allow the student to practice invasive nursing skills and procedures such as IV catheter insertion, urinary catheter insertion, naso-gastric tube insertion and many other skills
Sim2Grow
An electronic medication administration and electronic health record system that replicates the process of safe medication administration and appropriate documentation
Assessment Technologies Institute (ATI)
A comprehensive testing and review system that assists in the preparation of the student to successfully pass the NCLEX-RN® exam; education, testing, and remediation; along with multiple resources to assist faculty in teaching and course delivery
ABSN Program Outcomes
1. Use knowledge and skills required in the field of nursing practice to administer client care.
2. Design and deliver person-centered client care across diverse health populations and settings.
3. Provide evidence-based client care informed by the use of scholarship and appropriate information and healthcare technologies.
4. Use a systems-based approach to deliver client care aligned with essential principles of quality and safety within the field of nursing practice.
5. Integrate interprofessional partnerships into the planning and delivery of client care.
6. Demonstrate professionalism required in the field of nursing practice through personal, professional, and leadership development.
Sample Accelerated Nursing Courses
SEMESTER 1:
Foundations of Nursing Practice
Pathophysiology
Health Assessment
SEMESTER 2:
Care of the Adult I
Care of the Adult I Practicum
Mental Health Nursing
Pharmacology
SEMESTER 3:
Care of Children
Maternal Newborn Nursing
Leadership in Nursing
Evidence-Based Practice & Healthcare Informatics
SEMESTER 4:
Community/Public Health Nursing
Care of the Adult II
Care of the Adult II Practicum
Note:
Sample courses are in development at this stage and may change slightly by the time this program is rolled out. This is a partial listing only.
Program Tuition
Note that the ABSN program is a second bachelor’s degree program, and the availability of Federal Financial Aid may be limited based on any aid you have already accepted.  Scholarships are available.
If you have questions about your aid eligibility, potential scholarships, or other available education loan options as you consider this program, complete the request information form; an ABSN admissions counselor will reach out to arrange an appointment with a JWU Financial Planner to discuss your options.
Tuition & Fees
Toggle
Nursing Prerequisites
What are the admission requirements and prerequisite courses needed to apply to the Nursing Program?
The following are criteria for admission into the Nursing Program:
Admission to the university
Receipt of all official college/university transcripts to JWU Admissions
Earned bachelor’s degree or higher at the time of application
Cumulative GPA of 3.0 or higher
Must have a B (80) or higher for the following prerequisite courses (or approved substitution/s*):
Human Anatomy & Physiology I with Lab
Human Anatomy & Physiology II with Lab
Organic/Inorganic Chemistry
Microbiology with Lab
Developmental Psychology
Human Nutrition
Statistics
*Approved substitutions as determined by the nursing program director.
All prerequisite courses must be completed in the last 10 years.
Prerequisite courses can be in progress at the time of application but must be successfully completed before entry into the program.
Prerequisite courses taken at institutions other than JWU will be evaluated by the Nursing program to determine transfer criteria.
Toggle
Frequently Asked Questions
When are application deadlines?
Applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis. We encourage interested applicants to complete the application process early, as our class number is limited.
Can I apply if I still have a prerequisite course in progress?
Yes. Applicants may apply if they still have a prerequisite course in progress. However, if the applicant is admitted into the Nursing program, that admission will be contingent on successful completion of the pre-requisite course with the required grade and GPA. The applicant must submit and updated official transcript indicating the completion of the course.
Can I apply if I have not yet earned my degree?
Yes. Accepted applicants must complete their bachelor’s degree and all prerequisite course work prior to program enrollment.
Where may I take the prerequisite courses?
Prerequisite courses may be taken at any regionally accredited institution. In order to ensure that the coursework you are considering taking meets the Nursing program’s admission requirements, we recommend that you contact JWU Admissions’ Transfer & Testing Office to evaluate the course. All prerequisite courses are offered at JWU.
May I transfer credits/classes from another nursing program if I am accepted?
JWU’s Nursing program is designed to be completed in a cohort format. All 60 credits of nursing courses must be taken, in sequence, at Johnson & Wales University. Unfortunately, JWU does not accept transfer credits from other nursing programs.
What materials must I submit with my application?
Official transcripts from every college or institution you have attended or attempted coursework should be submitted with your application through CAS. If you are conditionally accepted, your official transcript showing your pre-requisite class grades and bachelor degree conferral (if applicable) should be sent directly from your other college/university to the Admissions Office at the appropriate campus or uploaded securely
here
.
Will I be waitlisted if I am not accepted into the program?
JWU’s Nursing program has limited capacity to admit students. It is not uncommon for applicants to receive a waitlist notification. You will be notified as soon as possible if your status changes from “waitlisted” to “accepted.” (Keep in mind that JWU does not reveal your rank on the list of waitlisted applicants.)
Who determines the admission decision of an applicant?
Admission decisions are made by an admissions committee within the Nursing Program, but the admission process is centralized through JWU’s office of Admissions.
What is the cost of the program?
JWU’s ABSN program cost is structured with a student-first approach. Our inclusive program cost accounts for many benefits and services at no additional cost, including uniforms, textbooks, access to the Laerdal Simulation Lab, and more. Additional estimated expenses outside of the total program cost may include criminal background checks, health insurance, and others. For more information, visit
Tuition & Fees
.
How long does the Nursing program run, and when do students start?
This is a cohorted, second-degree, accelerated program that is roughly 16 months, or 4 sequential semesters from start to finish. The first cohort started at JWU’s Providence Campus in Fall 2023; the JWU Charlotte program began on May 6, 2024.
Is the Nursing program delivered online?
Most classes are offered in a traditional, in-person capacity. However, several of the courses are delivered in an asynchronous online model.
Can I work while completing the Nursing program?
Nursing programs are very rigorous, intense, and time-consuming. The Nursing Program at JWU must be completed at a full-time status. Some students are able to manage to work part time or less during the program. It is strongly recommended that nursing students do not work full time while enrolled.
I have additional questions. Who can I reach out to?
Refer to the listing below to contact Luis Faria (Providence) or Jessica Manglicmot (Charlotte).
Toggle
Accreditation Site Visit/Call for Comments
Engaged in Accreditation Process: September 16-18, 2024
The Accelerated Bachelor of Science in Nursing (ABSN) Program at Johnson & Wales University will be evaluated for accreditation by a team of program evaluators from the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE), a nationally recognized accrediting agency, from September 16-18, 2024.
Written Comments
The public is invited to provide written comments regarding the program’s qualifications for accreditation.
All comments submitted to CCNE must be written in English, consistent with the policy on Conduct of Business in English by CCNE, and received by August 26, 2024.
Comments regarding Johnson & Wales University’s Nursing Program will be shared with the program evaluators prior to evaluation, but will not be shared with the program, the CCNE Accreditation Review Committee or the Board of Commissioners. During the review of the program the evaluation team considers third-party comments, if any, that relate to the accreditation standards.
Please submit your written comments to the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education
by email
or mail comments to:
Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education
Attention: Third-Party Comments
655 K Street NW
Suite 750
Washington, DC 20001
Technical Standards
To participate in the Nursing program, each student, with or without reasonable accommodations, must be able to safely meet minimum technical standards as described for this program:
Technical Standards (PDF)
Contacts
Providence
Luis Faria
ABSN Admissions Counselor for Nursing and Health Sciences
Email
Charlotte
Jessica Manglicmot
ABSN Admissions Counselor for Nursing and Health Sciences
Email
The baccalaureate degree program in nursing at Johnson & Wales University is pursuing initial accreditation by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791. Applying for accreditation does not guarantee that accreditation will be granted.
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.