URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/baking-and-pastry-arts-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Bachelor of Science
Baking & Pastry Arts
Program Overview
Labs
Learn by Doing
Sample Courses
In this section
Apply Now
Request Information
Visit JWU
Majors & Degrees
Minors
Learn to Lead in Baking & Pastry Arts
Creating extraordinary breads, cakes, pastries, confections and showpieces requires mastering techniques and formulas — and developing your own passion and creative vision.
As one of the few four-year programs in the U.S., JWU’s Baking & Pastry Arts bachelor of science degree program sets the global gold standard in baking and pastry arts education.
Throughout the program, our industry-experienced faculty will guide you in advancing your craft, professionalism and leadership. Learn crucial skills for becoming a pastry professional, including menu costing, food safety standards, purchasing and budgeting.
The bachelor’s degree culminates with an advanced internship experience, allowing you to refine your pastry and supervisory skills. With exposure to industry-relevant skills, techniques and technology, you’ll be ready to connect with some of the world’s best hotels, bakeries, restaurants and pastry shops. What will you create tomorrow?
Individual states may require specific licensing or professional certification in addition to earning a degree in order to practice in the field. Learn more via the Catalog’s
Licensure & Professional Certification Disclosures
. Admissions is contingent upon meeting the technical standards
technical standards
for this program.
Request Information
Loading...
Real-Time Learning in Our Labs
Put your learning into action in our baking & pastry labs, located in the Cuisinart Center for Culinary Excellence (CCCE) and the Harborside Academic Center (HAC). Gain real-time practice in applying your skills in a range of specialty labs, including the Bay Café Dining Room and the Chocolate Lab (CCCE 305).
Launch 360° Baking & Pastry Lab Tour
Explore Baking & Pastry Labs
Master Techniques, Flavors & Recipes
Build your skills through 1,440 hours of hands-on learning (not including study abroad or internship experience) in our labs and classrooms.
Cycle through 16 advanced labs to discover your area of focus. Options include artisan bread and viennoiserie, confections and chocolate production, showpiece work, plated desserts, modern pastries, wedding cakes and formula development.
Further strengthen your skills and professionalism through opportunities like:
Internship or study abroad experience, including École Nationale Supérieure de Pâtisserie in Yssingeaux, France
Competitions
Directed Experiential Education (DEE; based on project availability)
Modern Pastry Buffet
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Johnson & Wales Providence (@jwuprovidence)
Featured Baking & Pastry Arts Faculty
Maura Metheny
Assistant Professor
In 2014, Metheny was named one of Dessert Professional’s Top 10 Pastry Chefs in the U.S. In 2016, she returned to JWU to teach advanced chocolate and pastry courses.
Jaime Schick
Assistant Professor
For Schick, inspiration is everywhere. She is constantly exploring new ideas and techniques and learning from the work of chefs she admires.
Ciril Hitz
Senior Instructor
Bread expert Hitz has been a guest instructor/expert at many national and international culinary events and has been featured on “The Today Show” (NBC), The Food Network, The Learning Channel (TLC), and “Ciao Italia” (PBS).
Sample Baking & Pastry Arts Courses
Contemporary Plated Desserts
Chocolate & Sugar Artistry
Advanced Petits Gateaux & Modern Pastry Buffet
Modern Chocolatier & Artisan Bean to Bar
Advanced Viennoiserie and Decorative Breads
Modern Cake & Floral Design
Design Theory & Practice
Food Science
Visit the JWU Catalog for a full course listing:
Providence
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
Career Possibilities
Lead Bread Baker
Cake Artist
Café Owner
Patisserie Owner
Corporate Sales Associate/Chef
Chocolatier
Bakery Owner
Executive Pastry Chef
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Faculty Contacts
Providence
Susan Lagalle
401-598-2080
Email
Richard Miscovich
401-598-2596
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.