URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/pre-medical-pre-health-professions-non-degree.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Postbaccalaureate Pre-Medical & Pre-Health Professions Program (Non-degree)
In this section
Apply Now
Request Information
Visit JWU
Majors & Degrees
Minors
Program Overview
Interested in enrolling in a medical or health professional program, but lack the necessary prerequisites? Take these must-have courses and get rewarded for your effort by pursuing JWU’s Postbaccalaureate Pre-Medical & Pre-Health Professions program.
The Pre-Medical & Pre-Health Professions program offers students who have already completed a bachelor’s degree an easy and affordable way to fulfill pre-med or pre-health prerequisite coursework.
Whether your goal is to enroll in a health professional program or you need to retake courses to improve performance, this non-degree program provides a minimum of 22 credits in health-related courses. If you choose to complete the program, your total credits can include up to four transfer credits from coursework completed at another institution.
The program includes prerequisite coursework in biology, microbiology, chemistry, physics and calculus that are required for most medical, nursing, dental and veterinary schools, as well as physician assistant, physical therapy, occupational therapy, and other health-related programs.*
You’ll receive the same one-on-one advising, tutoring, academic support, and professional mentoring that comes with a Johnson & Wales University education. You will be required to maintain a 3.0 GPA to remain eligible for the program.
*
Students should check with the school(s) and programs of their choice to determine which courses they need to apply for admittance. Different schools may recommend additional work in biology, the behavioral sciences, research experience, or clinical experience.
Sample Courses
Fundamentals of Immunology
General Microbiology and Lab
General Physics I & II
General Physics I & II Laboratory
Human Anatomy and Physiology I & II
Human Anatomy and Physiology I & II Laboratory
Introduction to Biostatistics
Organic Chemistry and Lab
Explore the full JWU Catalog course listing:
Providence
Note:
Students interested in financial aid for this program must
complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid
(FAFSA) as a 5th year undergraduate. Aid eligibility is limited to a Direct Subsidized/Unsubsidized Loan for a single consecutive 12-month period.
The majority of pre-medical and pre-health prerequisite courses are not currently offered at JWU during the summer semester. Students must enroll in 6 credit hours per semester to be considered for any financial aid.
What Pre-Medical/Pre-Health Students Say About the Program
Brown University graduate
Gregorio Benitez
and Princeton graduate
Sugi Kong
chose JWU’s pre-health/pre-medical program as a convenient way to round out the classes needed to prepare them for taking the MCATs and applying to medical schools. With their backgrounds in Epidemiology and Anthropology, respectively, they found JWU’s classes rigorous and appropriately challenging. Here’s what they had to say:
“I appreciate the rigor of the classes here at JWU, combined with faculty who have a vast amount of experience preparing students for the medical field.
“I aspire to become an M.D./Ph.D. as an infectious disease specialist because I want to be a practitioner who provides outstanding clinical care and comfort, particularly to patients of color who may feel disenfranchised in the medical environment; be a source of trusted information; and lead epidemiological research to best inform policy with an emphasis on equity.” -
GREGORIO BENITEZ
“I’m glad I chose to do my pre-health classes at JWU because of the supportive faculty who are sharp, empathetic, and who challenge students while showing a generosity of spirit. I plan to take the MCAT in a few months and am considering a career in psychiatry, ophthalmology, or dermatology.” -
SUGI KONG
Program Contact
Providence Graduate Admissions
401-598-1015
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.