URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/public-health-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Bachelor of Science
Public Health
Program Overview
Student Spotlight
Learn by Doing
Courses
Faculty
In this section
Build Healthier Communities
At
JWU Providence
, our focus on public health involves delivering patient-centered and humanistic healthcare to diverse populations. In our B.S. in Public Health degree, you will learn to assess and plan for community needs by taking a holistic approach that includes courses in nutrition, exercise science, public health, psychology, sociology and economics. Our students also gain insight into global health issues and develop solutions for challenges faced by different populations around the world.
Graduates of JWU’s Public Health program can choose to apply for our
Master of Public Health degree
, which provides a more in-depth training and prepares them to become future leaders in public health. Many of our B.S. in Public Health graduates have continued their education by pursuing M.P.H. degrees at prestigious institutions such as Johns Hopkins University, New York University and George Washington University.
By participating in our small classes and receiving personalized guidance, you’ll work closely with faculty who truly care about your future in public health. Our faculty have also fostered strong connections with local organizations, offering students networking opportunities and preparing them for internships with local and state health departments.
Request Information
Loading...
Gaining Experience Through Research
“I was given the opportunity to be a part of JWU’s Center for Student Research and Interdisciplinary Collaboration as a research fellow, which has provided me with valuable experience for my future in public health. As a research fellow, I have had the opportunity to work with real-life data and collaborate with faculty mentors to produce various research products, as well as present at state-wide conferences.”
- Lilly Oliveira ’25, CSRIC Managing Research Fellow, Health Equity Club President
Building Public Health Skills
At JWU, we support our students in becoming public health advocates, with mentorship from faculty who are well-versed in research and have real-world industry experience. Students can make a difference in health, whether through research and education, providing data analysis for local health initiatives or conducting surveys to investigate the links between smartphone addiction and mental health, or the relationship between social media use and depression in college students.
In this program, you’ll:
Become prepared for a career in healthcare or for graduate studies in public health
Learn how to evaluate, present and analyze data and develop policies and interventions
Obtain the intervention skills set to evaluate global health systems, identifying problems and developing solutions
Identify and complete a full-year research project, presenting your findings to fellow researchers and to the public
Apply free elective credit to options ranging from
Directed Experiential Education
(DEE) to internships to study abroad
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Johnson & Wales Providence (@jwuprovidence)
Sample Courses
Introduction to Global Health
Health Policy, Ethics and the Law
Health Education and Program Planning
Mindfulness for Health & Wellbeing
Comparative Healthcare Systems
Data and Evidence in Health: Research Capstone
In addition to classes, free elective credits can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
View the full JWU Catalog course listing:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Public health specialist
Policy analyst
Grants coordinator
Research associate
Data analyst
Project coordinator
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Cara Sammartino
Professor + Department Chair
Sammartino is a health services investigator with experience in developing/analyzing program evaluation data, building analytical models, analyzing state legislation and research effective policy solutions.
Samantha Rosenthal
Associate Professor
Rosenthal worked on pharmaceutical and vaccine development as a chemical engineer and developed novel medical devices and prostheses as a biomedical engineer.
Jennifer Swanberg
Professor
Swanberg is an internationally known scholar dedicated to improving the quality of work life and well-being of vulnerable working populations through research and policy interventions.
Related Programs
Accelerated Nursing (ABSN)
Our accelerated program is designed for individuals who already hold an earned bachelor’s degree or higher and wish to pursue nursing as a career.
Healthcare Administration
Your experience centers on becoming immersed in the current healthcare system and evaluating policies, laws and regulations that drive the system.
Health Science
Gain knowledge that will help prepare you for a career in healthcare or for graduate studies in medicine, physical therapy and more.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Faculty Contact
Providence
Cara J. Sammartino, PhD
401-598-5223
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.