URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/mba-event-leadership-concentration.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Master of Business Administration
Event Leadership Concentration
In this section
Apply Now
Request Information
Visit JWU
Majors & Degrees
Minors
Program Overview
Like organizing elaborate events? Consider a JWU MBA with Event Leadership concentration— and design, plan and execute live events in corporate, private and public sectors around the world.
Event managers are needed to lead teams in numerous industries — in fact, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts the job outlook will grow 11% by 2026, faster than the national average.
Through coursework, you’ll learn to perform event research, select sites, and manage venues and multipurpose event spaces — all with an eye on sustainability.
Negotiate like a pro and discover the ins and outs of event sales, marketing and budgeting with your MBA background. Flex your creative muscles in a variety of settings while supporting your company’s strategic initiatives. If you have the attention to detail and the drive, JWU’s MBA with Event Leadership concentration will propel you to success in the event industry.
Sample Courses
Business Policy and Strategy
Event Operations & Risk Management
Financial Management
Negotiations for Event Management
Sustainable Event Management
Explore the full JWU Catalog course listing at your respective campus:
Providence
Online
Featured Faculty
John Krupa
Professor
Professor Krupa has held positions in marketing, sales management, selling, counseling, consulting and education. His underlying philosophy is that people have unlimited potential.
Lee A. Esckilsen
Department Chair & Associate Professor
Esckilsen has been instrumental in the development of courses and course content in the areas of venue management, ticketing and access management. He teaches both undergraduate- and graduate-level courses.
Faculty Contact
PROVIDENCE
Paul Boyd, Ph.D.
Professor & Faculty Director
MBA Programs
401-598-1215
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.