URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/public-health-mph.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Master of Public Health
Public Health
In this section
Your Future as a Public Health Leader Starts Here
FULL OR PART TIME • ACCEPTING FALL 2025 APPLICATIONS
Merit Scholarship
|
Get More Info
|
Program Outcomes & Structure
|
Program Advantages
|
Career Possibilities
|
Curriculum
|
Articulation Agreements
|
How to Apply & FAQ
|
Tuition, Fees & Cost of Attendance
To address the public health challenges of today and beyond, investment in public health is at an all-time high. At Johnson & Wales University, combine your passion for public health, leadership, and advocacy with our Master of Public Health (MPH) — a comprehensive program focused on training future leaders.
JWU Providence’s MPH program starts with exploring the history of public health and tracing the historical developments that led to the U.S. public health structure. From there, you’ll analyze the environmental factors influencing public health, health trends, disease prevention, health equity and DEI, and more. The program concludes with the Public Health Capstone, where you will work with faculty members and community partners to apply program learnings to real-world challenges.
At Johnson & Wales, we’re committed to offering a superior student experience and creating the pathways you need. Our on-campus MPH degree offers full- and part-time options to fit your schedule.
As a full-time student, you’ll earn your degree in two years. In addition, JWU welcomes students from all bachelor’s degree backgrounds to apply. Whether you choose to study health science, hospitality, finance, psychology, or another area of study, you can build your future in public health with JWU.
Merit Scholarship Opportunity
Outstanding full-time applicants will be considered for the Dean’s Scholarship, which offers up to $4,000 per academic year for full-time study. Enrolled students who did not receive the scholarship as incoming students will be eligible for consideration in their second year, provided they maintain a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.5 at the end of their first year as full-time students. For students awarded multiple university scholarships or grants, the scholarship with the highest value will be applied to their program.
Request Program Info
Complete the signup form below to contact an enrollment counselor for more information about JWU’s Master of Public Health program.
You’ll receive full attention and personalized support from our enrollment counselors throughout the process. We’re here to help guide you and answer your questions from start to finish.
REQUEST INFO
Program Outcomes
Our Master of Public Health (MPH) program has been designed to develop community-centered impact-makers in Rhode Island and beyond. Upon graduation, you’ll be prepared to:
Use practice- and research-based epidemiological methodologies to assess the health of a population.
Develop a public health intervention using foundational knowledge to improve community health.
Evaluate the impact of public health programs and policy using observational, experimental, or quasi-experimental methodologies.
Evaluate the effect of diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives on individual and community health.
Develop a comprehensive plan to create and promote an environment that supports healthy decision-making.
Program Structure
2-year (full time) and 4-year (part time) options
15 courses (45 credits total)
Hybrid study: 12 in-person and 3 online courses
2 course-based applied learning opportunities
By incorporating real-world experiences throughout the program, students will be ready to make an immediate positive impact on the public’s health after graduation.
JONATHAN NOEL, PH.D., MPH
Advantages of Earning Your MPH Degree at JWU
When you choose to earn your MPH degree at Johnson & Wales University, you’re taking the first step towards impacting change using the Wildcat Way — embracing a passion for lifelong learning, critical thinking and problem-solving, and ethical stewardship in your community. Our program offers many advantages along the way, including:
Experiential education:
Our MPH program offers students real-world experience by collaborating with community stakeholders to identify and solve today’s public health issues.
Comprehensive and current curriculum:
You’ll learn from our internationally-recognized faculty, who bring their wide-ranging public health experiences to your student experience. Our MPH degree integrates core public health knowledge across numerous different content areas.
Small state, big impact:
Offered at our Providence, RI campus, JWU’s MPH degree takes advantage of Rhode Island’s small size and diverse opportunities to provide an immersive and comprehensive public health education.
Flexible schedules:
We know flexibility is important to you. With full- and part-time options — and flexible class times — you can design your MPH program to fit your schedule.
Reduced costs:
By eliminating the use of textbooks, maximizing the use of open-educational resources, and implementing hybrid courses options, we aim to minimize the non-tuition costs of JWU’s MPH.
Career Possibilities
Your career opportunities are endless with your public health degree from JWU. In the United States, the average Master of Public Health (MPH) salary is $88,254.* In addition, you may explore multiple career options, including:**
Community Health Worker
Epidemiologist
Health Program Coordinator
Health Education Specialist
Medical and Health Services Manager
Public Health Researcher
Biostatistician
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams, and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
*Source:
Lightcast™ Analyst 2022
**Source:
Lightcast™ Analyst 2022 &
PublicHealth.org
Public Health MPH Courses
Full-Time Course Sequence
FALL I SEMESTER*
HSC5020: Foundations of Public Health
HSC5080: Health & Health Care
HSC5100: Healthy Planet
HSC5120: Health Trends
SPRING I SEMESTER*
HSC5150: Chronic Disease Prevention & Control
HSC5180: Discrimination & Health
HSC5220: Insights into Vulnerable Populations
HSC5260: Advocating for Healthier Diets
FALL II SEMESTER**
HSC6120: Improving Community Health
HSC5320: Cultural Competency to Improve Health
HSC5290: Combatting Infectious Disease
SPRING II SEMESTER*
HSC5350: Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
HSC5380: Policy of Addiction
HSC6920: Public Health Capstone
HSC5420: Community Organizing
Fall initial start only; courses are offered in the Fall and Spring semesters. Visit the JWU Catalog for a full course listing and descriptions of each course:
Providence
*12 credits // ** 9 credits
Part-Time Course Sequence
FALL I SEMESTER*
HSC5020: Foundations of Public Health
HSC5080: Health & Health Care
SPRING I SEMESTER*
HSC5150: Chronic Disease Prevention and Control
HSC5180: Discrimination & Health
FALL II SEMESTER*
HSC5100: Healthy Planet
HSC5120: Health Trends
SPRING II SEMESTER*
HSC5220: Insights into Vulnerable Populations
HSC5260: Advocating for Healthier Diets
FALL III SEMESTER**
HSC6120: Improving Community Health
SPRING III SEMESTER*
HSC5350: Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
HSC5380: Policy of Addiction
FALL IV SEMESTER*
HSC5320: Cultural Competency to Improve Health
HSC5290: Combatting Infectious Disease
SPRING IV SEMESTER*
HSC6920: Public Health Capstone
HSC5420: Community Organizing
*6 credits  // **3 credits
Public Health Faculty
At JWU, our internationally-recognized MPH faculty bring their wide-ranging expertise to your student experience. As practitioners, researchers and educators, they understand that the future of public health relies on collaboration, coordination, and the application of practice- and research-based epidemiological methodologies.
Jonathan Noel
Associate Professor
Associate Professor Noel’s scholarly interests include addiction, social epidemiology, mental health, research methods, and biostatistics. He has completed numerous research projects evaluating how marketing influences alcohol use.
Ezenwayi Amaechi Ejiribe
Associate Professor
Associate Professor Ezenwayi Amaechi Ejiribe, Ph.D., MBA, is passionate about helping students reach their full potential and strengthen their natural leadership skills.
Sara Namazi
Assistant Professor
Namazi's research interests focus on work-life conflict, total worker health, community-based participatory research, the aging workforce, and correctional worker health.
Toggle
Articulation Agreements
Johnson & Wales University is dedicated to recruiting students from local area college and universities through articulation agreements.
JWU maintains articulation agreements with the following institutions to provide a pathway for undergraduate students to matriculate into JWU’s MPH program:
University of Massachusetts Dartmouth
Springfield College
Interested students should contact the pre-health advisor at their institution.
Toggle
How to Apply
You must have completed a bachelor’s degree from an accredited US or international institution before matriculation into this program. There are no course-based prerequisites for entry into the program. Students from all backgrounds are encouraged to apply.
Admissions Criteria
The following criteria for admission into JWU’s MPH program include:
Minimum 3.0 GPA from an accredited undergraduate college or university or a minimum 2.6 GPA with at least 5 years of work experience
Submit a resume/CV
Submit a personal statement
Submit transcripts
Submit 2 letters of recommendation
Application Process
Applications are currently accepted through the
JWU application system
.
To apply, click the yellow “Apply Now” button. Select “Graduate,” then “In Person.”
This program accepts applications on a rolling basis, but we urge students to apply as soon as possible.
GREs or other standardized tests are not required.
Admissions Process
Each application is reviewed by the Master of Public Health Program Admissions Committee. Preference for acceptance is given to applicants who can demonstrate their commitment to public health issues and the ability to complete graduate-level coursework. There is no interview during the MPH admissions process.
Toggle
Frequently Asked Questions
What are the admissions requirements for JWU’s MPH program?
The following criteria for admission into JWU’s MPH program include:
Earned bachelor’s degree from an accredited undergraduate college or university
Minimum 3.0 GPA or a minimum 2.6 GPA with at least 5 years of work experience
Submit a resume/CV
Submit a personal statement
Submit transcripts
Submit 2 letters of recommendation
Are there application deadlines?
There is no preferred deadline, but we encourage interested applicants to complete the application process as early as possible.
Do I need to submit my GRE scores?
No. GRE scores are not required for application to the MPH program.
Do I need a specific bachelor’s degree to apply?
JWU’s MPH program encourages students with any bachelor’s degree to apply to our program. We do not require a specific degree for consideration.
Does the program have prerequisite requirements?
There are no prerequisite course requirements for JWU’s MPH program. We encourage students to complete a course in biostatistics or statistics in preparation for those program components.
How long will it take to complete JWU’s MPH program?
Full-time students will complete the MPH program in 2 years. Part-time students will complete the program in 4 years.
Are scholarships available?
Any graduate who holds a bachelor’s degree from any JWU program at any JWU campus is eligible to receive the Wildcat Alumni Scholarship. Unfortunately, there are no full scholarships available to applicants.
Domestic students can apply for financial aid via the
Free Application for Federal Student Aid
(FAFSA). If you need assistance, contact your financial planner.
What is the Cost of Attendance (COA) for the MPH program?
The
Cost of Attendance
(COA) is the estimated total amount it will cost a student to attend JWU each year. The COA includes:
Tuition and fees
On-campus housing (or a housing and food allowance for off-campus students)
Allowances for books & supplies, transportation, personal expenses, and federal loan fees
In an effort to decrease the COA for students, JWU’s MPH program does not require the purchase of textbooks, and we will evaluate other methods to reduce the COA as they become available.
How much will textbooks cost?
To minimize the costs to students, the MPH program utilizes open educational resources in every course. Textbooks are not required in any course.
When are JWU MPH courses held?
JWU MPH courses that meet in-person are typically held in the evening to accommodate working schedules. Some courses will be offered online to provide students with additional flexibility.
Will I be assigned a faculty advisor?
Yes. All JWU MPH students are assigned a faculty advisor. Faculty advisors are a resource for students as they navigate the program and begin their public health careers.
Faculty Contact
Jonathan Noel, Ph.D., MPH
Associate Professor
Email
Sara Vollmer
Academic Administrative Coordinator
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.