URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/psychology-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Bachelor of Science
Psychology
Program Overview
Advanced Degree
Learn by Doing
Labs
Student Spotlight
Courses
Faculty
In this section
Explore the Human Mind
If you’re fascinated by human behavior, you might find yourself in demand in a range of industries. The study of psychology can offer unique career pathways in the social sciences and services, education, healthcare, business, finance, sales, industrial organizations, human resources and criminalistics.
Through project-based learning and immersive internships, you’ll gain critical thinking and research skills, scientific literacy and experience behaving ethically and professionally in the field. You’ll also learn from faculty with industry experience — many of them are licensed practitioners.
You can also explore additional interests with a variety of choices for free electives, minors and specializations. Students can pursue a 24-credit Counseling Psychology specialization to learn more about counseling techniques, crisis intervention, addiction management and more.
Request Information
Loading...
Considering an Advanced Degree?
Many Psychology students opt to continue their education by earning an advanced degree — JWU offers accelerated and combined programs to save you time and money.
Learn More About Graduate Degree Options
Make a Difference in the Lives of Others
Learning how to help others takes practice, which is why students in this program take their lessons beyond the classroom by working with real clients in real clinical settings. Experiential education is especially important in this program because it allows students to understand the impact they can have on the lives of others.
Why Study Psychology at JWU Providence?
You’ll learn from faculty who are licensed psychologists, mental health clinicians and therapists.
You can conduct your own original research at JWU’s Center for Student Research and Interdisciplinary Collaboration.
Project-based learning and internships are a key part of the curriculum — students in this program have interned at local and regional locations such as Butler Hospital, Day One, Ally Behavioral Health, Better Lives Rhode Island, South Side Elementary School and more.
You can explore additional interests with a wide selection of free electives as well as minors such as Community Justice, Gender Studies and Public Health.
You can also earn a
Master of Science in Addiction Counseling
or
Clinical Mental Health Counseling
at JWU, and combine it with this bachelor's degree to save time and money.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Johnson & Wales Providence (@jwuprovidence)
Industry-Focused Labs and Classrooms
Counseling Lab
Students enrolled in the Mental Health Counseling or Addiction Counseling master's programs have access to the Counseling Lab at the Harborside Campus.
How I Got Here: Danielle Cutlip ’16
Psychology alum Danielle Cutlip shares how her time at JWU led to a career as an integrative behavioral health clinician and what advice she would offer students aspiring to enter the psychology field.
Sample Courses
Health Psychology
Abnormal Psychology
Personality
Criminalization of Mental Illness
Human Sexuality
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
Explore the full JWU Charlotte Catalog course listing:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Clinical Psychologist
Mental Health Counselor
Social Worker
Human Resource Specialist
Occupational Therapist
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Jonathan Mosko
Professor
Dr. Jonathan Mosko was trained as a counseling psychologist at Purdue University. Prior to joining the program at Johnson & Wales, Dr. Mosko...
Jessica Fede
Professor
Jessica Fede, Ph.D., is a licensed psychologist and certified school psychologist who received her doctorate in school psychology from the...
Tamara Blake
Associate Professor
Tamara Blake is an associate professor of Psychology at Johnson & Wales University.  As an educational psychologist and a believer in lifelong...
Related Programs
Criminal Justice
JWU’s renowned Criminal Justice program is more than learning law enforcement best practices. You re-think justice.
Public Health
Explore a holistic approach to health through nutrition, exercise science, psychology, sociology, public health, and economics courses, and discover its importance to patient-centered, humanistic healthcare delivery.
Health Science
This truly interdisciplinary program brings together all of the resources of the university curriculum, giving you flexibility to explore approaches to health and the healthcare industry.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.