URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/mba-data-analytics.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Master of Business Administration
Data Analytics Concentration
Program Advantages
About the Field
Sample Courses
Related Programs
In this section
Apply Now
Request Information
Visit JWU
Majors & Degrees
Minors
Harness the Power of Business Data
Making data-informed decisions is crucial to the success of any business. JWU’s MBA in Data Analytics utilizes STEM-focused coursework to teach you the art of telling stories through data. Learn to make data work for you — and for your business.
Data analysts analyze crucial trends in customer behavior and satisfaction, business sales patterns and trends, and other factors.
Become a strategic thinker and leader who can translate data into implementation plans and longterm strategy. Learn skills that can be leveraged across a range of industries, from healthcare to hotels, finance to technology.
Learn to Lead with Data
This MBA concentration allows data analysis professionals to develop both their professional skills (concentration courses) and management skills while learning to think strategically in a complex, cost-competitive, knowledge-based environment.
Throughout the program, you will:
Build your management skills through challenging coursework.
Learn from field-tested faculty with years of professional experience.
Learn executive business competencies, professional leadership, and strategic and creative thinking skills.
Learn how to ethically solve problems that occur in the global business environment.
What Is Data Analytics?
Data analytics is a valuable field that allows businesses and individuals to make informed decisions based on key insights. Data analytics helps companies store, organize and analyze raw data so they can find trends and patterns to make better business decisions.
As businesses increasingly rely on data to gain a competitive edge, understanding data analytics has become a valuable skill for professionals across numerous industries.
Become an Effective Data Communicator
This program is structured to build your skills in the following areas:
Gather, interpret and analyze research to inform operational and strategic decision-making.
Integrate knowledge of mathematics, statistics, and computer science to collect, analyze and interpret data.
Analyze problems from diverse perspectives and with cultural sensitivity.
Sample Courses
Quantitative Methods in Business
Tools for Data Analytics
Financial Reporting and Control
Global Economic Environments
Effective Leadership
Big Data Analytics
Research Methods in Data Analytics
Business Policy and Strategy
Review the full curriculum in the JWU Catalog:
MBA — Data Analytics Concentration
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
Career Possibilities
Data analyst
Operations analyst
Chief data officer
Business systems analyst
Market research analyst
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured MBA Faculty
Paul Bagdan
Professor
Bagdan recently published a second edition of a textbook, “Guest Service in the Hospitality Industry.” He has also given numerous presentations on the topics of guest service, tip elimination and technology.
John Krupa
Professor
Krupa has held positions in marketing, sales management, selling, counseling, consulting and education. His underlying philosophy is that people have unlimited potential.
Related Programs
MBA — Organizational Leadership
Through JWU’s MBA with an Organizational Leadership concentration, obtain the skills to become an emotionally intelligent (EQ) leader adept at uniting employees around a shared sense of purpose.
MBA — Human Resource Management
Take the fast track to becoming an HR executive through an MBA with a concentration in Human Resource Management. Our world-class MBA program is designed to accommodate the schedules of working professionals.
Global Tourism and Sustainable Economic Development
Through proper long-term planning, tourism can preserve sites for future generations and act as a tool for positive change. Help direct that positive change by pursuing a Global Tourism and Sustainable Economic Development master’s degree.
Program Contact
Providence
Robin Charlonne
401-598-1838
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.