URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/entrepreneurship-bsba.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Bachelor of Science in Business Administration
Entrepreneurship
Program Overview
E-Center
Learn by Doing
Labs
Courses
In this section
Develop an Entrepreneurial Mindset
Get a thorough understanding of business management at
JWU Providence
. In the Entrepreneurship program, you will develop a viable business plan, preparing to start your own business as well as work for small businesses and start-up companies. Learn to lead change within organizations and communicate effectively with diverse audiences while using decision-support tools to resolve contemporary business issues, from culinary operations to analyzing marketing reports to financing company expansions.
You’ll get a solid business core encompassing macroeconomics, microeconomics, accounting, business management, finance, operations and supply chain, human resources management, marketing foundations and global strategy to allow you to start or run a business. You can pursue electives that align with the pathways that interest you most, from international business to organizational behavior to marketing, in JWU’s many
MBA programs
.
Many of our students land jobs at partners like Hasbro, Target, Kohl’s and Lifespan even before graduation thanks to connections by faculty with industry experience and JWU’s students reputation of being ready to work. Our students also participate in clubs and organizations ranging from doing taxes or auditing for low-income clients to handling social media or marketing for a JWU department to joining chapters of professional organizations for supply chains and operations or for HR management — getting to explore your industry while making like-minded friends.
Request Information
Loading...
Larry Friedman Center for Entrepreneurship
JWU Providence
’
s Larry Friedman Center for Entrepreneurship, also known as The Launch Pad, is a supportive place for students to explore ideas and pursue dreams with continuous faculty mentors — all with a student-designed logo and student-strategized social media outreach.
A Supportive Space for Entrepreneurs
Watch our video to find out what students are saying about The Launch Pad, JWU’s hub for entrepreneurial activity and faculty coaching to students.
Sahteen Dillon ’25 Sees Dreams Become Reality
At The Launch Pad, you can also pitch business ideas to a panel of industry professionals at our annual Sharkfest entrepreneurial competition, with the winner receiving seed money to develop their business.
“The Launch Pad not only has given me a safe space to share my entrepreneurial ideas, but to also make them come true,” says Sahteen, a 2024 Sharkfest finalist for her stylish design. “Because of The Launch Pad, I was able to turn my idea, Lokyt, a fashionable key accessory, into a reality.”
Find Out More on Our Podcast
Start Your Business at JWU Providence
You’ll
experience real-world opportunities through
Directed Experiential Education
(DEE)
—
an intensive, project-based experiential learning opportunity
—
and/or through
internships, undergraduate research study, study abroad opportunities and faculty-led trips
ranging from
observing
marketing teams in Florence, Italy
to shadowing
business teams in New York City.
In this program, y
ou’ll
:
Learn to use decision-support tools to resolve contemporary business issues using ethical business practices while communicating effectively with diverse audiences
Understand the types of capital funding sources for start-up and existing businesses
Develop a viable business plan that incorporates the concepts, skills and values of business administration
Global Strategies Lab
Students can also use the Global Strategies Lab to collaborate with financing and accounting students to manage the Wildcat Investment Value Fund.
Launch Experience
Sample Courses
Financing New Ventures
Small Business Management
Marketing for Entrepreneurs
Change and Innovation Management
Pitching & Planning New Ventures
Growth and Sustainability for Small Business
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
Explore the full JWU Providence Catalog
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Business owner
Business manager
Management consultant
Operations manager
Financial analyst or advisor
Sales manager
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
James Woods
Assistant Professor and Department Chair, Management & Marketing; Charlotte College Chair
Woods emphasizes real-world learning and experiences both in- and outside of the classroom, encouraging his students to network with local entrepreneurs and leaders.
Magnus Thorsson
Professor
Thorsson’s varied experiences with the hospitality industry provide him with an accumulated understanding of the segment in which he is keen to delve deeper through empirical research.
Jeff Binczyk
Director, Larry Friedman Center for Entrepreneurship
Binczyk joined JWU after a career in the corporate world working for global food companies like Kellogg’s and Shearer’s Snacks. His goal is to leverage his creativity, innovation, and entrepreneurship knowledge with the broader JWU community.
Related Programs
Business Administration
In this program, you’ll learn about every level of an organization — from accounting and human resources to marketing and business analytics.
Business Studies
In this highly flexible program, you’ll gain a broad understanding of current business practices.
Cannabis Entrepreneurship
In this program, you’ll gain an in-depth understanding of the cannabis industry and develop business skills unique to the cannabis market.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Faculty Contact
Providence
James Woods, Ph.D.
Assistant Professor and Department Chair
980-598-3123
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.