URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/cybersecurity-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Bachelor of Science
Cybersecurity
Program Overview
Student Spotlight
Learn by Doing
Labs
Courses
Faculty
In this section
Become a Cybersecurity Expert
Are you ready to embark on an exciting journey into the world of cybersecurity? Cybersecurity is the practice of safeguarding computers, servers, networks and digital systems from unauthorized access, damage or theft. It involves implementing measures and techniques to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of electronically stored and transmitted information. Just as you secure your home with locks, cybersecurity encompasses the safeguards that keep your digital information and resources safe from cybercriminals.
At
JWU Providence
, our innovative Cybersecurity bachelor
’
s degree program will equip you with the skills and knowledge you need to protect digital systems. From day one, we immerse our students in real-world, hands-on experiences. You’ll gain training in network security, digital forensics, cryptography, ethical hacking and incident response. As a nationally designated
Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education
, you’ll have access to research opportunities and cybersecurity competitions, giving you the chance to test yourself in real-world scenarios and develop practical skills that are highly valued by employers.
Request Information
Loading...
Powered by Purpose: Kyle Leupold '23
Kyle Leupold '23 is getting hands-on lessons as a cybersecurity student. From helping the IT Security Department implement a vulnerability scanner, placing #1 at the Colorado Cyber Security Games and working with professors in our NSA-designated Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education Cybersecurity Center, Leupold is ready to use his skills to help others.
Experiential Education
At JWU, we stand out as pioneers in
experiential education
, seamlessly integrating industry-relevant experiences into our cybersecurity program. As cyber threats become more sophisticated, we recognize the importance of practical learning. You’ll learn from professors with industry experience, work on real-world projects with business partners and be prepared to sit for key professional certifications upon graduation. In addition, our unique collaboration with our Criminal Justice program gives students experience with digital and physical aspects of security and forensics.
In this program, you will:
Discover trends and create behavioral profiles of adversary groups to combat attacks against computers and networks in the public and private sector.
Blend physical reconnaissance and defense with modern information technology techniques, including setting up firewalls, scanning for viruses and routinely checking for breaches in security.
Learn incident response techniques that detect, scope and respond to internal and external intelligence, decreasing cyber attackers’ likelihood of success with each intrusion attempt.
Identify, extract, prioritize and leverage intelligence from advanced persistent threat (APT) intrusions; deploy countermeasures; and gauge the performance of planned and installed enterprise-level information security systems.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Johnson & Wales Providence (@jwuprovidence)
Industry-Focused Labs and Classrooms
Cybersecurity Center
28 computer workstations with external solid
state drives and dual monitors
Industry standard forensic debugging and
penetration testing software
Program curriculum is aligned with
NSA standards
Launch Cybersecurity Lab
The Innovation Lab
This unique lab is open to students from any major and includes everything from scanners to the latest fabrication equipment, including 3D printers, laser engravers, micro mills and vinyl cutters.
Launch Innovation Lab
Sample Courses
Introduction to Cyber Security Operations
Network Protocols
Network Forensics
Active Cyber Defense and Countermeasures
Software Reverse Engineering
Computer Architecture with Assembly Language Programming
Software Reverse Engineering
Ethical Hacking
Forensics Information Security with Cryptography
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
View a full course listing:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
IT Security Administrator
Security Analyst
Cybersecurity Engineer
Computer Forensics & Intrusion Analyst
Counterintelligence Analyst
Security Architect/Administrator
Information Systems Security Officer
Logistics Analyst
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Anthony Chavis
Assistant Professor
Anthony Chavis has been with JWU since 2016 teaching Cyber Security and Networking courses. Prior to joining JWU, he served in the U.S. Army (Military Intelligence) for 10 years and was a private contractor working for various companies.
Douglas Tondreau
Assistant Professor
Douglas Tondreau is an Associate Professor of Computer Science in the College of Engineering and Design at JWU. Prior to joining JWU, Tondreau was an Adjunct Professor of Computer Science at the University of Rhode Island.
Peter Reid
Assistant Professor
Peter Reid has been teaching at JWU since 2017. Prior to joining JWU, he held leadership positions in the IT departments of several large companies.
Related Programs
Computer Science
Here, in addition to a general computer science degree, you can choose a specialization in either software engineering or network engineering. You’ll study the design, development and analysis of software and hardware used to solve problems in a variety of business, scientific and social contexts.
Data Analytics
In a world driven by increasingly vast and complex data, employees are needed to decipher that data quickly and efficiently to help companies make more-informed business decisions and identify new opportunities for competitive advantage.
Criminal Justice
JWU’s renowned Criminal Justice program is more than learning law enforcement best practices. Our faculty will highlight the influences of individual and group dynamics, and will inspire you to apply your ideas in ways that influence today’s society.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.