URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/health-science-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Bachelor of Science
Health Science
Program Overview
Combined Degree
Learn by Doing
Student Research
Labs
Courses
Faculty
In this section
Creating Healthier Communities
JWU Providence
students experience a truly interdisciplinary Health Science program, bringing together all of JWU’s curriculum resources while giving you flexibility to explore approaches to health and the healthcare industry.
Build a solid foundation for an entry-level position in healthcare or for further education in disciplines such as medicine, physical therapy, public health and occupational therapy. You’ll gain hands-on experience with basic lab techniques and learn to evaluate, present and analyze data. This training will teach you to assess populations, identify issues and devise effective solutions, all centered around compassionate care in diverse medical fields.
Our small class sizes and personalized instruction mean that you will work closely with supportive, industry-knowledgeable faculty who take a personal interest in helping you prepare for wherever your future takes you. Faculty members have also cultivated strong partnerships with local organizations like Brown University Health, Care New England and the Rhode Island Department of Health & Human Services, giving you access to valuable networking opportunities. They can also help you enhance your research skills through guided learning, including the possibility of publishing your research in scientific journals.
Request Information
Loading...
Get Your Master’s Faster
Students can earn a combined
Health Science B.S./Public Health M.P.H.
in as little as five years or a combined
Health Science B.S./Occupational Therapy O.T.D.
in as little as six years at JWU.
Qualified students can complete five core M.P.H. graduate courses or nine Occupational Therapy doctoral courses that will count toward their undergraduate Health Science degree.
Explore Our Combined Degree Programs
Putting Health Science Skills to Work
Our students are encouraged to become health scientists under the mentorship of research-focused and industry-experience faculty. This means having an opportunity to influence health at every level, whether helping to develop a brief for a local Department of Children, Youth and Families or publishing scientific literature concerning a finding from your project research. Students are encouraged to pursue their research interests, which might look like examining the intersection between traumatic brain injuries and substance abuse or studying the consequences of losing a loved one to COVID-19.
In this program, you will:
Become prepared for a career in healthcare or for advanced studies in fields such as medicine, occupational therapy, clinical nutrition and dietetics, nursing, mental health counseling, addiction counseling or physical therapy
Learn how to evaluate, present and analyze data
Obtain the intervention skills set to examine populations, identify problems and develop solutions
Identify and complete a full-year research project, presenting your findings to fellow researchers and to the public
Apply free elective credit to options ranging from
Directed Experiential Education
(DEE) to internships to study abroad
Be eligible for an accelerated pathway to JWU’s Master of Public Health program, including a 25% discount for Wildcat alumni
Research in Health Science
Student-Teacher Collaboration
Associate Professor Samantha Rosenthal, Ph.D., MPH, collaborated with three JWU Health Science student interns on starting a pilot study after winning a $311,000 National Institute of Mental Health grant.
Helping Marginalized Populations
While studying Health Science at JWU, Sarah Miller ’24 stepped outside of what she was familiar with, setting out to identify factors associated with avoiding healthcare due to fear of discrimination among sexual and gender minority (SGM) populations. Her project won the President’s Award at
JWU’s 2024 Student Research, Design & Innovation Symposium
.
State-of-the-Art Labs & Classrooms
Microchemistry Lab
This lab is located in JWU’s John J. Bowen Center for Science and Innovation. It allows students to explore the reactions and properties of substances in minute quantities.
Launch Experience
Exercise and Sport Science Labs
Health Science students can also opt to take electives that allow them to use various equipment in JWU’s Exercise and Sport Science Labs
Launch Experience
Sample Courses
Introduction to Health Professions
Introduction to Public Health
Epidemiology
Research Methods for Health Science
Mindfulness for Health & Wellbeing
Data and Evidence in Health: Research Capstone
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
View the JWU Catalog listing:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Physician Assistant
Occupational Therapist
Nurse Practitioner
Pharmacist
Medical Laboratory Technician
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Cara Sammartino
Professor + Department Chair
Cara Sammartino, Ph.D., M.S.P.H., is a health services investigator with experience in developing/analyzing program evaluation data, building analytical models, analyzing state legislation and research effective policy solutions.
Samantha Rosenthal
Associate Professor
Samantha Rosenthal, Ph.D., M.P.H., worked on pharmaceutical and vaccine development as a chemical engineer and developed novel medical devices and prostheses as a biomedical engineer.
Jennifer Swanberg
Professor
Jennifer Swanberg, Ph.D. MMHS, OTR/L, is an internationally known scholar dedicated to improving the quality of work life and well-being of vulnerable working populations through research and policy interventions.
Related Programs
Healthcare Administration
In this program, you will become immersed in the current healthcare system and evaluating policies, laws and regulations that drive the system.
Public Health
Explore a holistic approach to health through courses in nutrition, exercise science, psychology, sociology, public health and economics, and discover its importance to patient-centered, humanistic healthcare delivery.
Accelerated Nursing (ABSN)
Our accelerated program is designed for individuals who already hold an earned bachelor’s degree or higher and wish to pursue nursing as a career.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Faculty Contacts
Providence
Cara Sammartino
401-598-5223
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.