URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/criminal-justice-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Bachelor of Science
Criminal Justice
Overview
3-Year Degree
Learn by Doing
Accelerated Programs
Labs
Courses
Faculty
In this section
Re-Think Justice & Change Communities
Criminal Justice is about more than catching criminals — it’s also about serving communities, advocating for victims and striving to create a better system.This program at
JWU Providence
offers a holistic view of criminal justice and emphasizes the humanistic side of the field.
You’ll explore the interdisciplinary nature of the criminal justice field with courses in political science, psychology and sociology to fully examine the global and domestic criminal justice issues of today. You’ll learn from faculty with years of experience as policy experts, legislators, police captains and detectives. They can offer firsthand insight into how your lessons are applied in the field.
Our Crime Lab and Crime Scene Room also allow you to learn forensic analysis skills in ﬁngerprinting and blood spatter analysis, bullet trajectory research and collection of crime scene evidence.
Students in the Criminal Justice program can choose to add a
minor in Community Justice
or
Forensic Science
to dive deeper into specific areas of the criminal justice field.
Request Information
Loading...
New! Choose a Three-Year or Four-Year Bachelor’s Degree
You now have the option to earn your Criminal Justice bachelor’s degree in either three or four years. Our new
Career-Focused Degree Program
lets you complete your degree in just three years with a streamlined, 90-credit curriculum. This option allows you to enter the workforce sooner and
save on tuition
while still receiving the same quality education and hands-on experiences JWU is known for. If you prefer a more traditional pace, the four-year degree path is also available, offering the same rigorous preparation for your future career.
View the Career-Focused Curriculum (PDF)
Experiential Education
From the interactive courses in our industry-standard criminal justice labs to the numerous internship opportunities with local agencies and organizations, you’ll get to experience different parts of the criminal justice field firsthand throughout your education here.
Why Study Criminal Justice at JWU?
You’ll gain
hands-on experience
in forensic analysis and crime scene processing.
You’ll have internship opportunities at locations such as the public defender’s office, the attorney general’s office, local and state law enforcement agencies, federal agencies and more.
You can participate in experiential field trips – recent trips include the RI Department of Corrections and visits to local police departments.
The Criminal Justice program has its own annual career fair to help you pursue internships and jobs in the field with recruiters from Homeland Security, Secret Service, Target, Justice Assistance, the RI Department of Children, Youth, and Families (DCYF), RI State Police and other local police departments.
New students can participate in a
Collaborative Learning Community
, taking core courses together during their first year at JWU.
JWU has partnered with The Washington Center to offer students an
interactive experience in Washington, D.C.
where they can learn about careers in cybersecurity, national security, law and more.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Johnson & Wales Providence (@jwuprovidence)
Considering an Advanced Degree?
While completing your bachelor’s degree, you can also begin work on an
online Master’s in Criminal Justice degree
through our College of Professional Studies. Or, take advantage of our
3+3 Law Program
to earn a bachelor’s degree from JWU and a juris doctor (JD) degree from either Roger Williams University School of Law or University of Massachusetts School of Law in just six years.
Industry-Focused Labs & Classrooms
Crime Scene Room
In this lab, students step into a staged crime scene to learn how to properly collect evidence and gather information to solve the crime.
Launch Experience
Crime Lab
In the Crime Lab, students learn how to analyze forensic evidence, including fingerprints, blood spatter and bullet trajectories.
Launch Experience
Sample Courses
Criminalistics Lab
Victimology
Offender Assessment Management
Juvenile Justice
Serial Killers
Community Psychology
Cultural Awareness and Diversity in Criminal Justice
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
Explore the full JWU Catalog course listing:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Law Enforcement
Loss Prevention
Attorney
Fraud Analyst
Victim Advocate
Forensic Crime Lab Technician
Customs/ Border Patrol Agent
Corporate Security
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
A Catalyst for Change
“My motivation for studying criminal justice stems from wanting to help people that the justice system ultimately fails,” shares Cordelia Dechellis ’24, who is pursuing her juris doctorate to become a criminal attorney through JWU’s 3+3 Law Program.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Paul Sylvestre
Professor and Department Chair
Prior to joining academia, Professor Sylvestre served on the Pawtucket Police Department in Rhode Island for 22 years
James Desmarais
Professor
Prior to coming to JWU, Professor Desmarais accrued 27 years of law enforcement experience across a wide spectrum of positions.
Barbara Frazier
Assistant Professor
Professor Frazier worked in the patrol, community policing and detective divisions of the Warwick, RI police department for 20 years.
Related Programs
Psychology
Explore the complexities of human behavior and the variety of unique career pathways in the field of psychology.
Cybersecurity
Learn how to protect today’s digital world from cyber attackers in this program.
Biology
This interdisciplinary program explores chemistry, physics, molecular biology, ecology, and biochemistry.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.