URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/media-and-communication-ba.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Bachelor of Arts
Media & Communication
Program Overview
Student Spotlight
Learn by Doing
Labs
Courses
Faculty
In this section
Everyone Has a Story to Tell
Whether your passion is film, music, television, news, photography or any aspect of the media landscape, this program affords you the opportunity to explore how media shape the way we live.
Our interdisciplinary approach allows you to view the world through a variety of perspectives and apply academic theories to real work in media production and storytelling. You’ll have access to hands-on experiences in our Center for Media Production, where you can learn how to use an impressive inventory of industry-standard media equipment.
And you’ll have an opportunity to get involved in our media clubs and organizations, such as the campus newspaper (
The Campus Herald
), the student radio station (Wildcat Airwaves), the Music & Entertainment Industry Student Association (MEISA), the JWU Media Production Club, the AD Team and JWU Players theater group.
Request Information
Loading...
“I found my home in this program.”
Liznett Rivera ’24 shares why she chose the Media & Communication program and what she loves most about it in a video she produced with fellow classmate CJ Perrone ’24.
Experiential Education
Whether you’re analyzing existing media or creating your own, you need
real-world examples and projects
to fuel your lessons. Dissect movies, music, or news articles to understand their effects on society. Write and direct your own short film. Work with local businesses and organizations on projects that will impact the community. When your education is experiential, every day of class is an exciting one.
Why Study Media & Communication at JWU?
You’ll collaborate with other majors on integrative projects.
You’ll have exciting internship opportunities
—
students in this program have recently interned at local news and radio stations, Sony Music, the R.I. International Film Festival, iHeart Media and more.
Directed Experiential Education courses in this program have worked with the Providence Performing Arts Center, Brown University Athletics, The Avenue Concept and more.
JWU has a dedicated Center for Media Production built for this program.
This program is housed in the arts district of downtown Providence, where you have walkable access to an array of media performance venues.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Johnson & Wales Providence (@jwuprovidence)
The Center for Media Production
This center is home to two light-controlled studio spaces with moveable green screens, a soundproofed podcast studio, two editing suites, a writer’s room, 24 powerful Mac Pro workstations, a 4k projector and projection screen and high-end video and photo equipment.
Launch Experience
Careers Launched
Here’s a small sample of Media & Communication alumni placement:
Aaron Aguilar '24, Promotions Assistant, WPRI
Danielle Flores '22, News Producer, WPRI
Georgie Dean '21, Graduate Student, University of Arkansas
Olivia Randolph '20, Associate, People Experience, Sony Music
Alexandra Elliot '20, International Marketing Assistant, Warner Music
Laina Terry '19, Founder, Pronto Public Relations
Katie Gillen '19, Royalties Coordinator, Universal Music
Special Events & Programs
Media & Communication students enjoy program-specific events and trips organized by faculty, such as:
The Center for Media Production regularly hosts film festival screenings for the Rhode Island International Film Festival, the Vortex Sci-Fi, Fantasy & Horror Film Festival and the Rhode Island Black Film Festival
Industry panels and guest speakers
Alumni speakers
Visits to the Providence bureau of the
Boston Globe
Field trips to New York and Boston media venues and museums
Sample Courses
Television Studies
Global Media
Media Industries
Latinx Music Culture
Motion Picture Editing
Narrative Filmmaking
News Writing
Sports Writing
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
View the catalog course listing for your respective campus below:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Art Director
Video Editor
Marketing Research Analyst
Writer
Media Producer
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certiications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Megan Stoessell
Associate Professor
A graduate of the University of Virginia and Columbia Journalism School, Stoessell worked in the newsroom before focusing her career on education. Her expertise is in lifestyle writing.
Alana Perino
Assistant Professor
Perino’s areas of expertise include photojournalism, editorial photography, fashion photography, commercial photography, exhibition curation and installation.
Ashley Smalls
Assistant Professor
Smalls specializes in media representation, social media, and popular culture. By integrating active learning techniques and educational technology, her aim is to boost students’ digital literacy and critical thinking skills.
Related Programs
Digital Marketing & Social Media
Learn how to develop effective social and digital marketing strategies and reach audiences with content that generates interactions on platforms such as Facebook, Snapchat, Instagram and YouTube.
Marketing & Advertising
Improve your communication skills, gain a deep understanding of consumer behavior and dive into the world of marketing campaigns and strategies.
Graphic Design
Build your design portfolio with while learning to solve visual communication problems through the design of branding, logos, publications, typography, websites and more.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.