URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/marketing-advertising-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Bachelor of Science
Marketing & Advertising
Program Overview
Student Spotlight
Learn by Doing
Labs
Courses
In this section
Marketing Campaign Success Starts Here
Interested in learning how brands stay relevant with today’s consumers? In
JWU Providence’s
Marketing & Advertising bachelor of science program, learn the theory behind great marketing campaigns — and conduct the market research to create them.
Gain a deep understanding of consumer behavior and dive into how brands make a lasting impression. Learn how to analyze brand elements and emotional cues — and how messaging makes an impact across platforms.
It takes a range of skills and personalities to execute and track the performance of a successful marketing campaign. Uncover your strengths — whether you’re a market researcher, a strategist, a content creator, an influencer or a social media expert. As you progress, you will discover how to integrate into a dynamic team across disciplines in advertising, public relations, marketing and media buying.
Request Information
Loading...
Powered by Purpose: Jake Beaton '23
Jake knew he liked marketing but found a passion for analytics at JWU. “Students can get involved with real-world clients and be in a professional environment while getting credit, he explains. [You get] the feel of real life experience of what you can expect post graduation.” When Jake isn’t playing intramural volleyball, he’s helping his peers expand their market research skills.
Become a Marketing Leader
Apply your skills through options like a semester-long internship, study abroad or a
Directed Experiential Education
(DEE) project with a regional client or nonprofit. Compete in the National Intercollegiate Sales Competition (NISC) or join the American Advertising Federation (AAF) Ad Club and Ad Team, where multidisciplinary student teams research and create a campaign for a real-world client — then take that campaign to the annual AAF National Student Advertising Competition (NSAC).
Other ways to boost your skills:
Learn from and network with JWU alums through our Alumni Mentor Program.
Take advantage of opportunities to earn industry certifications through coursework or LinkedIn Learning access.
Refine your digital marketing and social media skills by becoming a College of Business social media ambassador.
Expand your network through on-campus career fairs, competitions, employer workshops and more.
Start your own business with support from JWU’s revamped
eCenter
, where you can learn about product development, branding and marketing new products or services.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Johnson & Wales Providence (@jwuprovidence)
Labs & Classrooms
Xavier Academic Complex
The College of Business oversees a number of classroom spaces within the Xavier complex where students hone their skills in marketing strategy, copywriting and art direction, which they use to develop, manage and launch campaigns. The eCenter’s mentorship and entrepreneurship space is also housed here.
Sample Courses
Content Creation and Generative AI
Global Strategic Marketing and Advertising
Influencer Marketing
Market Research and Consumer Insights
Marketing Communications
Media Buying and Planning
Personal Branding and Portfolio Seminar
Social and Digital Media Marketing
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
Review the full curriculum in the JWU Catalog:
Marketing & Advertising
Career Possibilities
Art Director/Copywriter
Digital Storyteller
Marketing Manager
Marketing Strategist
Market Research Analyst
Public Relations Manager
Social Media Manager
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Anthony Fruzzetti
Professor and Program Lead, Marketing
Fruzzetti’s two primary areas of specialization are marketing research and consumer behavior. Both focus on why people do the things they do.
Elizabeth Carey
Associate Professor
Carey’s teaching practices focus heavily on making sure students understand the diverse and interconnected work force that they will be entering.
Oscar Chilabato
Lecturer
Oscar Chilabato is committed to advancing student learning in advertising. He has served as the faculty advisor to the ADTEAM for the last 20 years.
Related Programs
Digital Marketing & Social Media
In this joint program between the College of Business and the College of Engineering & Design, learn about the latest technology and trends for digital marketing and social media careers.
Media & Communication
Media & Communication bachelor of science students are curious about the production and meaning of media — news, photographs, film, music, television, video games and social networking sites — and about how audiences respond to what they read, see and hear.
Graphic Design
Learn to solve visual communication problems in this bachelor’s degree program. Hone your graphic design skills by creating, editing and presenting visual collateral, including the design of branding, logos, packages, publications, video, typography, websites and user interface experiences.
Faculty Contact
Anthony Fruzzetti, Ed.D.
Professor & Faculty Lead
Department of Marketing, College of Business
401-598-1896
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.