URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/food-innovation-technology-ms.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Master of Science
Food Innovation & Technology
In this section
Apply Now
Request Information
Visit JWU
Majors & Degrees
Minors
Join a Legacy of Culinary Excellence
Program Overview
Become an agent of change in the world of food.
Creating equitable food systems is about more than just eradicating food waste. Our global food web is interconnected, and what happens locally often has repercussions on a broader scale. (And vice versa.)
Complex issues like climate change, food loss, and food security call for complex solutions. Addressing the most crucial — and challenging — food-related issues facing our growing global population requires critical thinking, keen analysis, and a multidisciplinary approach to engaging, collaborating, and problem-solving.
JWU’s new Master of Science (M.S.) in Food Innovation & Technology explores the complexities of our global food system and provides an opportunity for students to analyze the impact food has on people, industries, and the environment. Students will employ disruptive models and technologies to challenge existing systems, products, and processes and to develop innovative solutions that address systemic issues.
“My goal in developing this program is to create a dynamic curriculum that is dedicated to solving complex systemic issues related to food — in the hope of creating more equitable and restorative food systems for all,” notes Associate Professor Michael Makuch '03, '05 M.A.T., CEC, who serves as Culinary Arts department chair at JWU’s Providence Campus.
Makuch defines his role as that of an architect “providing the framework for our graduates, change agents charged with building more resiliency and equity across various food systems that will fuel humanity’s future and change the way the world eats.”
My goal in developing this program is to create a dynamic curriculum that is dedicated to solving complex systemic issues related to food.
ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR MICHAEL MAKUCH
Sample Courses
Shaping the Future of Food
Food Innovation & Technology Capstone
Epidemiology & Food Safety
Designing & Managing Supply Chains
Food Systems Design Methodology
The Global Food System
Featured Faculty
Michael Makuch
Assoc. Professor
Michael Makuch leads JWU’s Ecolab Center for Culinary Science, where students, faculty and industry experts connect science to culinary arts through curriculum development, academic projects, forums and other activities.
Branden Lewis
Professor
Branden Lewis, Ed.D., teaches a number of classes in sustainability, where students learn where food comes from and actually travel our food web.
This program is available in Providence, with a program start in Fall 2021.
Contact Admissions
for more info.
Explore the full JWU Catalog listing:
Providence
Program Outcomes
As part of this program, you will learn to:
Develop a theoretical lens and framework in which to investigate food systems
Parse a broad range of systemic issues related to food production, distribution, and consumption
Become a global thinker with the ability to wrestle with big-picture questions from multiple perspectives
Consider cultural contexts, resist stereotypes, and engage in respectful dialogue
Take responsible action, including the ability to see and frame opportunities to improve conditions, collaborate with others, and mobilize yourself and others to act
Faculty Contact
Providence
Michael D. Makuch '03, '05 M.A.T., CEC
Associate Professor
401-598-2846
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.