URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/mba.html

Home
/
Academics
/
MBA
In this section
Apply Now
Request Information
Visit JWU
Majors & Degrees
Minors
Program Overview
Our world-class MBA program is flexible and focused on working professionals. Take your career to the next level!
Developed and updated in collaboration with leading companies, our professionally focused curriculum includes real-world projects and challenges so you can gain experience — what employers value the most.
Our faculty experts are leaders in the industry they teach. They know what it takes to achieve success in their respective fields and share their insights with you.
Advance your skills and knowledge in all functional areas of business. Hone your ability to critically analyze information. Deliver optimal solutions for business challenges. You’ll learn to assess and evaluate businesses, taking into account cross-functional environments as they affect ethical decision-making in domestic and global organizations.
Plus, you can enhance your degree through electives such as marketing, finance, human resources, international business negotiation, entrepreneurship, labor relations and brand management.
Want to fast-track your degree?
Johnson & Wales also offers a
one-year MBA
in Providence.
International Students
: If you have a three-year bachelor’s degree from another country, you can take pre-MBA undergraduate courses to equate your education to a four-year US bachelor’s degree, while you fulfill MBA program prerequisites (Providence Campus only).
“I believe that a post-graduate degree adds value when vying for lucrative jobs and key management roles within an organization, especially for an immigrant restarting a career. JWU came across as an approachable and competitive institution, committed to graduating students capable of synthesizing their learning for real-world responsiveness.”
HELGA MELGAR '17 MBA, Lumetta
Sample Courses
Effective Leadership
Operations Management
Business Policy and Strategy
Financial Reporting and Control
Ethics, Corporate Social Responsibility & Law
This program is available in Providence and online.
Providence
Online
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
Featured Faculty
John Krupa
Professor
Professor Krupa has held positions in marketing, sales management, selling, counseling, consulting and education. His underlying philosophy is that people have unlimited potential.
Tim Howes
Associate Professor and Faculty Director of MBA Program
Howes has a 20-plus year track record of creating success at emerging consumer and business-oriented companies.
Top Employers of JWU MBA Alumni
Amica Mutual Insurance Company
CVS Health Corporation
Bank of America Corporation
Fidelity Investments
Citizens Financial Group
Hasbro, Inc.
Top Occupations for JWU MBA Alumni
Financial Managers
Marketing Research Analysts
General & Operations Managers
Marketing Specialists
Management Analysts
Sales Managers
Did You Know?
According to data compiled by EMSI on the national workforce with an MBA:
In 2018, there were 108,352 annual job openings with an MBA requirement.
Median salary: $88,300
Projected growth from 2018-2028: 15.4%
Top posted job titles include business analysts, program managers, project managers, and sales managers/directors.
Your MBA Questions, Answered
From academic support to career services and the average amount of coursework you might expect while completing your MBA, we answer some of the most common questions you might have.
Toggle
How long does the average student take to complete their degree?
Most MBA programs are designed to be completed in two academic years as a full-time student. Some programs can be accelerated to finish in as early as one calendar year. Students can work with their academic advisor to create a plan and schedule courses to help students meet their timeline objective for graduation.
Toggle
How flexible are faculty when I have a work-related emergency?
Faculty are generally very accommodating as long as students are in regular communication with them and they are made aware of any unforeseen circumstances in a timely manner.
Toggle
Will I have an advisor to help me plan my academic career path?
Yes, all students are assigned an academic advisor. Students can find their advisor’s information in their Success Network in uSucceed.
Toggle
It’s been some time since I attended school. What support systems are in place for MBA students?
At the graduate level, faculty members are your best resource for content or course-work related support. In addition, Providence-based students can take advantage of the
Academic Success Center
, where the range of academic resources includes subject tutoring, writing support, success coaching, and group workshops.
Toggle
How much work will I have to do outside of class?
Calculate roughly 2-3 hours for every hour of class time as the average. Some courses involve a greater amount of research and writing, so the total amount of time will vary based on your skillset.
Toggle
Are there career services that can help me to find a job after graduation?
Yes, graduate students have access to resources in our
Experiential Education & Career Services
resources, including advising, interview skills workshops and prep, resume assistance and career fairs. Advisors there can assist students with all facets of the job search process.
Faculty Contact
Tim Howes, MS
Associate Professor and Faculty Director
MBA Programs
401-598-1404
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.