URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/data-analytics-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Bachelor of Science
Data Analytics
Program Overview
Combined Degree
Learn by Doing
Student Spotlight
Courses
Faculty
In this section
Data-Driven Decision Making
In JWU's Data Analytics program, you'll learn problem-solving skills that can be applied to any industry while benefiting from personalized attention in a small department. You'll build a strong foundation in applied statistics, programming, data visualization and spreadsheets, and master the tools and software needed to collect and analyze data. This knowledge will help you uncover patterns, find correlations and predict outcomes for better decision-making in your field. Along with your focus on math, programming and communication, the program offers room for a minor in another subject of your choice, such as business, hospitality, design, health or technology, preparing you for a career in various sectors like corporations, nonprofits, schools or government agencies.
Student opportunities abound for hands-on data analysis, from completing a Directed Experiential Education (DEE) for course credit to taking advantage of opportunities for undergraduate research. Our Data Analytics students have been placed in internships at partners that include the Department of Defense, MIKEL Inc., Horizon Healthcare Partners, Chubb, Harmony Biosciences, the Providence Performing Arts Center, the Rhode Island School of Design (RISD) Office of Institutional Effectiveness and the American University in Florence, Italy.
Request Information
Loading...
Get Your Master’s Faster
If you’re planning on continuing your education, take advantage of JWU’s combined degree programs, which can be completed in as few as five years. Advance your data analyst skills further by earning your combined
B.S. and M.S. in Data Analytics
to uncover hidden patterns, unknown correlations, market trends and customer preferences. If your interest is in epidemiology and your passion is in improving community health, take advantage of JWU’s combined
B.S. in Data Analytics and M.P.H. in Public Health
program to get on the path you need to succeed.
What Data Analysts Can Do
Karl Treen, manager of data analytics at Johnson & Wales University, shows what you’ll encounter as a data analyst, from data cleanings to computer programming to presenting to an audience through data visualization.
Putting Data Analytics to Work
At JWU, you’ll
gain real-world experience
and prepare for a career analyzing data for decision-making. Your courses include in-class debates on various business and societal topics, while you will work with actual data in a realistic setting on topics that interests you. That could involve analyzing the effects of cultural TV streaming platforms, preferences in music, risks of pregnancy, engagement in STEM fields, measurement of caffeine intake—the options are endless for applying data to the world around you. The issues that you explore will ground you in collecting and processing data while applying analytic methods.
What you’ll gain by studying Data Analytics at JWU:
Get the applied statistics, programming, data visualization and spreadsheet design skills you need to write reports and make presentations
Feel confident using management systems and spreadsheet programs to collect, organize and display data
Understand how to use mathematics and statistics techniques to address challenges facing organizations, individuals and communities
Success in Data Analytics
As a current student in the Data Analytics major at JWU, I've been shocked by not only the opportunities we’re presented with as students from inside the classroom and internships, but the care and attention I have received from the faculty. I attribute my success in the program to them.
- Brandon Decesare '25, Data Analytics
Sample Courses
Problem Solving and Programming Concepts
Database Design
Data Visualization
Spreadsheets for Data Analysis
Linear Algebra
Statistics of Popular Culture
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
Explore the full JWU Catalog course listing:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Data analyst in business, science or social science
Actuary or risk analyst
Machine learning and AI programmer
Database designer
Education researcher
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Jaimie Stone
Associate Professor
Stone’s mathematical specialties include number theory, probability theory, game theory and financial mathematics. His deep interest in popular culture, from movies to literature to stage productions, features prominently in his classroom examples.
Michael Hornsby Brown
Assistant Professor
Brown’s interests include nonparametric statistics for use in the behavioral and social sciences, statistics education and multiple comparison procedures. He is affiliated with the American Educational Research Association, American Statistical Association and American Psychological Association.
Ann Brett
Professor
Brett’s field of research is difference equations and discrete dynamical systems. She has spoken at regional and national meetings of the American Mathematical Society and has been a reviewer for Mathematical Reviews, which is published by the American Mathematical Society, since 2014.
Related Programs
Computer Science
Are you ready to make your mark in the fast-paced world of technology? At JWU Providence, our Computer Science program is your gateway to success in this ever-evolving field.
Public Health
Explore a holistic approach to health through nutrition, exercise science, psychology, sociology, public health, and economics courses, and discover its importance to patient-centered, humanistic healthcare delivery.
Business Administration
If you know you want a career in the world of business but aren’t quite sure what that career is, you’ll have the opportunity to see what you enjoy most from a wide array of foundational and free elective courses.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Faculty Contact
Providence
Evelina Lapierre, Ph.D.
401-598-2430
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.