URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/hospitality-management-as.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Associate in Science
Hospitality Management
Program Overview
Program Benefits
Labs
Courses
Career Fairs
Faculty
In this section
Launch Your Hospitality Career
As one of the world’s fastest-growing industries, hospitality needs skilled leaders. Build your career-ready skills from day one with JWU Providence’s associate degree in Hospitality Management.
Gain a broad understanding of the hospitality industry, including hotel and restaurant operations, customer service and event planning. Major courses educate you in industry-focused topics like technology, tourism and sustainability, managing the hotel guest experience, and much more. Further expand your expertise through electives — you can even choose options outside your major. Connect to industry expertise through site visits, networking panels and twice-yearly career fairs.
Upon completing your associate degree, you can seamlessly transition to our bachelor’s degree in
Hospitality Management
.
Admissions is contingent upon meeting the technical standards for this program. Learn more by visiting the JWU Catalog’s
technical standards
.
Request Information
Loading...
Hotel Immersion Day
Each fall, hospitality students visit one of the New England’s top travel destinations to examine the multifaceted functions of a major hotel brand up-close. Students shadow industry professionals and gain insights into daily operations, preparing them to lead in the diverse and exciting field of hospitality.
Explore Hotel Operations
Electives & Degree Flexibility
Flexibility is built into the curriculum, enabling you to mix core hospitality electives with 9 credits of free electives. Core topics include food culture and tourism, food service operations, event management and private clubs, while free elective options encompass communications, sociology, media & communications, and more. (Your advisor will be able to keep you on track with any prerequisites and required courses.)
Why Study Hospitality at JWU?
Benefit from JWU’s extensive network of hospitality industry connections, opening doors to internships and job opportunities.
Learn in fully modernized spaces like SEEM Lab and the Bigelow Beverage Lab.
Faculty bring their real-world expertise to life in the classroom, sharing career lessons and industry knowledge.
Explore the latest trends and meet industry pros at events like the Hospitality Summit, Hotel Shadow Day and more.
Twice-yearly career fairs give you the opportunity to network and make career connections.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Johnson & Wales Providence (@jwuprovidence)
Hospitality Labs & Classrooms
SEEM Lab
The Delaware North Sports, Entertainment, Event Management Lab is where innovation meets application. This dedicated space is designed for students to brainstorm, plan and execute projects, giving you a hands-on experience that mirrors industry practices.
Launch Experience
Bigelow Beverage Lab
Discover the world of beverages through tasting and experimentation in this cutting-edge facility. Students conduct tastings of beverages such as water, tea, coffee, beer, wine or spirits to learn sensory perception techniques, how to conduct professional flavor profiles and how to pair food with all types of beverages.
Launch Experience
Sample Courses
Beverage Appreciation
Food Service in Hospitality and Tourism
Foundations of Leadership Studies
Hospitality Sales and Meeting Management
Managing the Hotel Guest Experience
Technology in the Hospitality Industry
The Business of Event Management
World Geography for Tourism and Hospitality
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits. View the full JWU Catalog listing:
Hospitality Management
Careers
Concierge
Food Service Manager
Hotel Assistant Manager
Meeting, Convention and Event Planner
Travel Guide
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Gateway to Career Success
For students, career fairs are more than just networking events — they’re a chance to jumpstart their careers. Hospitality Management major Estefania Garcia '25 credits career fairs with opening doors: “Last year, I connected with Marriott, and that led to my current job at the Renaissance Providence.”
Career Fair Connections
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Kathleen Drohan
Associate Professor
Drohan’s expertise is in creating university-community partnerships that provide students experiential learning and leadership development opportunities with direct, real-world impact.
Leslie Kosky
Associate Professor
Leslie Kosky’s professional experience includes positions within Westin Hotels & Resorts, Hilton Hotels and Disney World Golf Resort. As a Certified Hospitality Educator (CHE) since 1996, she is known for developing innovative teaching methods.
Ron Blum
Associate Professor
Ron Blum’s experience includes more than 12 years’ experience with Darden Restaurants, serving in both back- and front-of-house management positions.
Related Programs
Hospitality Management
Our Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management is a gateway to a dynamic career where each interaction becomes an opportunity to craft unforgettable experiences.
Entrepreneurship
In this program, you’ll develop the skills to start a new business venture as a small business owner, revitalize an existing organization or become a corporate entrepreneur in an extensive variety of industries.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Faculty Contact
Providence
Jane Boyland, FMP, CHE
401-598-4624
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.