URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/digital-marketing-social-media-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Bachelor of Science
Digital Marketing & Social Media
Program Overview
Student Spotlight
Learn by Doing
Courses
Faculty
In this section
Become a Digital Trendsetter
If you're always on top of social media trends and quick to discover the latest apps, why not transform that talent into a career? Our Digital Marketing & Social Media degree is designed to help you leverage your passion for digital media into a professional path. This program will give you the skills needed to create compelling content, engage audiences effectively and assist businesses in growing their online presence.
You’ll explore key areas such as digital marketing, social media, advertising and graphic design. The coursework will teach you to optimize web design, develop impactful digital content and analyze user experiences. By learning how to evaluate and implement digital strategies, you’ll be prepared to help businesses make informed decisions and achieve their marketing goals.
Additionally, you’ll gain practical experience with industry-standard tools and software, and stay ahead of trends by exploring emerging technologies like artificial intelligence (AI). This comprehensive approach ensures you’re well-equipped for a range of roles in digital marketing and social media, preparing you for a dynamic career in this rapidly evolving field.
Request Information
Loading...
From Student to Social Media Assistant
“The program’s curriculum is broad — you won’t just focus on a single topic but gain a toolbox of skills in graphic design, coding, marketing, content creation and more. These skills helped me land an internship and student assistant role with the University Marketing & Communications Department, where I’m getting hands-on industry experience.”
- Jordan Millette ’26
Getting Hands-On at JWU
Learning by doing is at the heart of our Digital Marketing & Social Media program. You’ll engage in
hands-on projects
that replicate real-world challenges, ensuring you develop practical skills alongside theoretical knowledge. From internships to capstone projects, every aspect of your education is designed to prepare you for success in your future career.
In this program, you’ll:
Have the opportunity to earn certifications in key areas — digital marketing, social media management and project management — to build your résumé.
Analyze, evaluate and redesign digital marketing and/or social media strategies for local businesses.
Hear from visiting industry professionals, niche influencers and successful alumni and start creating your network.
Travel to major cities for site visits at boutique agencies and large corporations to get an inside look at careers in this industry.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Johnson & Wales Providence (@jwuprovidence)
Projects for the Real World
Social media & digital marketing majors joined a team to help revitalize the Larry Friedman Center for Entrepreneurship, also known as The Launch Pad. This included research and developing a social media strategy for The Launch Pad to reach new students and connect with the greater JWU community.
Read More About The Launch Pad
Sample Courses
Marketing Analytics
Intro to Data Visualization
User Experience and Content Design I
Influencer Marketing
Social and Digital Media Marketing
Design for Video I
Content Creation and Generative AI
Market Research and Consumer Insights
Foundations of Web Design
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
View the catalog course listing below:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Social Media Manager
Digital Marketing Manager
Media Research Analyst
Digital Marketing Strategist
Influencer Marketing Manager
Public Relations Manager
Media Buyer & Planner
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Diane Santurri
Associate Professor
A graduate of Bryant College and Johnson & Wales University, Diane Santurri spent 16 years in the marketing industry conducting research analysis, which developed her skills in various software. While working in that industry, her interest in training and analysis became apparent.
Elizabeth Carey
Associate Professor
Elizabeth Carey currently serves as an associate professor in the Marketing department of JWU Providence’s College of Business. She focuses heavily on project-based learning, both inside and outside the classroom.
Related Programs
Marketing & Advertising
Gain a deep understanding of consumer behavior and dive into how brands make a lasting impression. Learn how to analyze brand elements and emotional cues — and how messaging makes an impact across platforms.
Graphic Design
If you love to create visually captivating illustrations and dream of inspiring others through your work — this is the place for you. You can pursue your passion for graphic design in the heart of the Creative Capital in Rhode Island.
Media & Communication
Whether your passion is film, music, television, news, photography, or any aspect of the media landscape, you’ll explore the power media has to shape the way we live through this program.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Faculty Contact
Diane Santurri, M.Ed.
College of Engineering & Design
401-598-2535
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.