URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/finance-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Bachelor of Science
Finance
Program Overview
Student Spotlight
Learn By Doing
Courses
Faculty
In this section
Prepare for Your Future Finance Career
JWU Providence’s Finance B.S. degree will prepare you for careers as a certified financial planner (CFP), financial advisor (FINRA license), certified financial analyst (CFA) and more by providing you with a solid foundation in capital budgeting, investment and portfolio management, financial markets and personal finance. Our program will immerse you in finance, from inviting you to join our
Our program will immerse you in finance, from inviting you to join our
Finance and Investment Academy (FIA)
student organization to maximizing networking and event participation opportunities off-campus. Coursework containing project-based learning experiences will provide you with valuable skills for your future. Since 2016, Johnson & Wales University has given our Finance degree candidates authority to oversee a student-managed investment of JWU’s actual endowment through our
Wildcat Investment Value Fund (WIVF)
program, grounding you in portfolio management and reporting of results.
From engaging with top industry leaders at the world’s largest student-run conference, the
Global Asset Management Education (GAME) Forum
, to class trips to New York City for real-world investment exposure, you’ll gain valuable portfolio knowledge. Personalized guidance from experienced faculty, mentoring you on your path toward certification and mentoring, and support from JWU’s network of alumni and finance leaders will help you build a successful career in finance.
Request Information
Loading...
Continue Your Education Through Johnson & Wales
Get your master’s faster through JWU’s signature accelerated master’s program,
J2
, by starting on coursework toward an MBA or M.S. degree your senior year — saving you time and money.
In JWU’s Finance Program, the World Is Your Classroom
In our lab-based environment, you’ll have the chance to
develop and apply both specialized technical skills and soft skills
that are crucial for success in today’s financial industry and the constantly changing world of business, working in teams and with your faculty mentor for case discussions, spreadsheet analysis and investment projects. Plus, you will have
access
to
one of the world’s
top
financial
database
s
used by industry professionals for o
ver 40 years, FactSet, from
anywhere from any device with internet access, without being required to be on campus to access a Bloomberg Terminal or other in-person-dependent software.
In addition to elevating your academic success with FactSet's real-time market intelligence, you will earn four FactSet certificates to add to your r
é
sum
é
.
Why Study at JWU?
You can apply your free elective credit to options such as a Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad.
You will learn to use decision-support tools to solve problems and facilitate organizational processes, while understanding how to identify and analyze ethical issues in financial decisions in order to recommend ethical solutions.
You will develop critical thinking skills to address changing global financial issues as well as develop the means to communicate effectively with diverse audiences through a variety of professional methods.
What It’s Like Studying Finance at JWU
William DelVerne, Austin Withycombe, Javier Bento and Ryan Malloy share the unique ways that JWU has prepared them for a career in finance.
Networking at a Student-Run Financial Conference
I had the amazing opportunity to represent the Wildcat Investment Value Fund at the Quinnipiac GAME Forum in NYC. We got to hear insights from some of the brightest minds in the industry. It was a blast to enter the competition, showcase our hard work and connect with so many great people!
– Alex Raposa ‘24
Sample Courses
Credit Risk Analysis and Management
Investments
Experiential Education Projects in Financial Modeling and Valuation
Finance Seminar
Portfolio Management and Analysis
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
Explore the full JWU Catalog course listing:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Financial Advisor
Financial Planner
Corporate Credit Analyst
Investment Analyst
Equity Research Associate
Account Manager
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Carlos Diaz
Associate Professor
In addition to teaching, Diaz is involved with JWU’s Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program. He also serves as a speaker at JWU’s ESL Transition workshops.
Jean Holt
Associate Professor
Holt has experience working in large financial institutions as a FINRA-licensed Financial Advisor. She teaches a wide range of finance courses, from foundation to senior seminar.
Tim Howes
Associate Professor and Faculty Director of MBA Program
As an educator with a 20+ year track record of creating success at emerging companies, Howes has a passion for improving organizations and their people.
Related Programs
Accounting
Do you use logic to solve puzzles? Are you detail-oriented? If you love facts and figures, you have the analytical mind of a JWU Accounting major — and you could be a critical component of organizational decision-making.
Entrepreneurship
In this 4-year entrepreneurship degree program, you’ll benefit from a diverse entrepreneurial curriculum with business and general education coursework while also completing your business administration degree.
Business Studies
In just two years, you can earn your B.S. through JWU’s accelerated Business Studies program if you have an associate degree or equivalent credits in any field.
Faculty Contact
Patricia Conn Ryan, DBA, CPA
Professor and Department Chair
Department of Accountancy & Finance
401-598-1866
Email
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.