URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/clinical-nutrition-dietetics-ms.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Master of Science
Clinical Nutrition & Dietetics
Program Overview
Advantages
Scholarships
Curriculum
contact
In this section
MSCND Home
Mission & Program Objectives
Our Faculty
Program Competencies
Supervised Experiential Learning
Accreditation
How to Apply
YOUR FUTURE AS A REGISTERED DIETITIAN NUTRITIONIST STARTS HERE
Program Overview
FALL START • FULL TIME FOR 16 MONTHS • COHORT MODEL
Registered Dietitian Nutritionists (RD/RDNs) have the skills to improve patient health outcomes through the strategic application of Medical Nutrition Therapy (MNT). Johnson & Wales University’s Master of Science in Clinical Nutrition & Dietetics (MSCND) trains the next generation of dietetics leaders through applied learning experiences emphasizing interdisciplinary collaboration and a holistic approach to wellness.
Building upon JWU’s recognized history in culinary nutrition and dietetics, this 16-month program prepares graduates to apply for the Commission on Dietetic Registration credentialing exam to become an RDN.
Expand your culinary and nutrition knowledge through the program’s close collaboration with our world-renowned
College of Food Innovation & Technology
(CFIT), and learn to efficiently apply your expertise to patient and client care through experiences within the
College of Health & Wellness
.
As you develop your clinical nutrition expertise, you will be guided in class by experienced faculty — and in the field by professional preceptors, many of whom are JWU alums.
Individual states may require specific licensing or professional certification in addition to earning a degree in order to practice in the field. Learn more via the Catalog’s
Licensure & Professional Certification Disclosures
.
Program Structure
Full time for 16 months (4 consecutive semesters).
48 credit hours (54 credit hours for students without a DPD Verification Statement).
Cohort model: Stay with your group and progress through coursework together.
Hybrid format: Online course delivery mixed with supervised experiential learning on campus and in the community.
Course Sequence
Cycle through courses in dietetics, macro- and micronutrients, nutrition for health and wellness, nutrition counseling and education, and current topics in nutrition.
Academic classes in health and wellness, counseling and education, and advanced clinical nutrition are paired with supervised experiential learning.
The program concludes with a Nutrition Capstone and extensive experiential learning opportunities, including a specialized rotation that takes students’ interests into consideration.
What Makes JWU’s Master of Science in Clinical Nutrition & Dietetics Unique?
JWU’s MSCND helps you develop the analytic, diagnostic and clinical skills to work in a range of settings. Learn to assess and modify patients’ diets to help treat or manage existing conditions — or prevent future health issues. As part of this program, you will:
Participate in interdisciplinary work across multiple JWU programs, including
health science
,
physical therapy
,
exercise and sports science
,
nursing
,
physician assistant studies
,
public health
and
occupational therapy
.
Learn from nationally recognized faculty in a fully modernized facility.
Participate in at least 1,000 hours of supervised experiential learning (SEL) focusing on various healthcare areas such as inpatient and hospital care, ambulatory and outpatient care, community outreach and education, private practice, senior living and longterm care facilities.
Merit Scholarship Opportunity
Outstanding full-time applicants will be considered for the Dean’s Scholarship, which offers up to $4,000 per academic year for full-time study. Enrolled students who did not receive the scholarship as incoming students will be eligible for consideration in their second year, provided they maintain a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.5 at the end of their first year as full-time students. For students awarded multiple university scholarships or grants, the scholarship with the highest value will be applied to their program.
JWU Providence’s MSCND program prepares future Registered Dietitian Nutritionists by focusing on applied learning experiences that emphasize the importance of interprofessional collaboration.
PROGRAM DIRECTOR LUCIANA SOARES, DCN, RDN, LDN, FAND
The Value of the RDN Credential
The RDN credential sets the quality standards for the dietetics practitioner, demonstrating a level of professional competence to offer an evidence-based approach to sustaining a healthy life. RDNs have access to diverse opportunities and a wide range of practice areas.
Is There a Difference Between RD and RDN?
No. The RD and RDN credentials are used interchangeably, and it is really a matter of preference. Historically, Registered Dietitian (RD) denoted those with Commission on Dietetic Registration credentials. In 2013, “Nutritionist” was added to set the credential apart from individuals calling themselves nutritionists, despite a lack of formal training.
Clinical Nutrition & Dietetics Curriculum
SEMESTER 1: FALL*
NUTR5100: Macronutrients in Human Nutrition (3 credits)
NUTR5200: Micronutrients in Human Nutrition (3 credits)
NUTR5300: Nutrition for Health and Wellness (3 credits)
DIET5350: Nutrition for Health & Wellness Experience (3 credits)+
SEMESTER 2: SPRING*
RSCH5700: Research and Inquiry (3 credits)
NUTR6200: Grantsmanship and Publication (3 credits)
NUTR5500: Nutritional Counseling and Education (3 credits)
DIET5550: Nutritional Counseling and Education Experience (3 credits)+
SEMESTER 3: SUMMER
DIET5600: Culinary Nutrition and Food Service Management (5 credits)
DIET5700: Current Topics in Nutrition Seminar (1 credit)
NUTR6100: Advanced Clinical Nutrition (3 credits)
DIET6150: Clinical Supervised Practice Experience I (3 credits)+
SEMESTER 4: FALL
NUTR6900: Nutrition Capstone (3 credits)
DIET6450: Clinical Supervised Practice Experience II (9 credits)+
3-week specialty rotation
Review the full curriculum in the JWU Catalog:
Clinical Nutrition & Dietetics
*Students without a DPD verification statement will be required to take two foundation courses prior to the start of the MSCND program. + Denotes a Supervised Experiential Learning (SEL) course related to the course directly above it.
Our Expert Faculty
At JWU, you’ll be guided by professors with years of industry experience and multiple professional certifications. As practitioners, they will help you gain hands-on experience that you will apply through fieldwork.
Allison Acquisto
Associate Professor + Supervised Experiential Learning Coordinator
Allison Acquisto, M.A.T., RDN is a member of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics and faculty advisor to the JWU Nutrition Society.
Kara Cucinotta
Associate Professor
Kara Cucinotta, D.C.N., M.S., RDN, LDN, CNSC, has practiced dietetics since 2009, working with adult and pediatric patients and clients in inpatient hospitals, outpatient clinics, and a private practice for nutrition counseling.
Lori Bechard
Associate Professor
A registered dietitian nutritionist and educator, Bechard has wide-ranging expertise in clinical nutrition research and specialized pediatric clinical practice.
Program Contact
Nutrition & Dietetics Department
College of Health & Wellness
401-598-4724
Email
JWU’s MS in Clinical Nutrition & Dietetics (MSCND) program is a Future Graduate Program that has been granted candidacy for accreditation by the
Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics
(ACEND), 120 South Riverside Plaza, Suite 2190, Chicago, Illinois 60606-6995, 800-877-1600 ext 5400 or by email:
acend@eatright.org
. Program outcomes are available upon request.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.