URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/computer-science-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Bachelor of Science
Computer Science
Overview
3-Year Degree
Learn by Doing
Labs
Courses
Student Spotlight
Faculty
In this section
Unleash Your Potential with Computer Science
Are you ready to make your mark in the fast-paced world of technology? At
JWU Providence
, our Computer Science program is your gateway to success in this ever-evolving field. We offer you not just a general computer science degree, but the opportunity to specialize in software engineering or network engineering.
Our coursework is designed to arm you with the skills and knowledge needed to solve real-world problems in business, science, and social contexts. We focus on a practical approach to learning, beginning with discrete mathematics to give you a strong foundation of basic math concepts essential in computer science.
In addition to this robust curriculum, our computer science program prides itself on its innovative teaching approach from
professors
who will show you the ropes. We integrate theory and application, offering real-world problem-solving exercises that help you understand how the principles you learn in the classroom apply in the workforce. This method not only deepens your understanding of computer science but also prepares you for the challenges that await in the ever-evolving tech industry.
Request Information
Loading...
New! Choose a Three-Year or Four-Year Bachelor’s Degree
You now have the option to earn your Computer Science bachelor’s degree in either three or four years. Our new
Career-Focused Degree Program
lets you complete your degree in just three years with a streamlined, 90-credit curriculum. This option allows you to enter the workforce sooner and
save on tuition
while still receiving the same quality education and hands-on experiences JWU is known for. If you prefer a more traditional pace, the four-year degree path is also available, offering the same rigorous preparation for your future career.
View the Career-Focused Curriculum (PDF)
Hands-On Learning to Equip You for the Future
At JWU, we believe in the power of
practical experience
. That
’
s why we offer opportunities to test and fine-tune your computer science skills through our Computer Science Competition team, HackJWU and our Association of Computing & Machinery (ACM) chapter. Here, you'll get a chance to compete at both regional and national levels, showcasing your proficiency and learning from the best in the field.
Why Choose Computer Science at JWU Providence?
You
’ll
develop a strong understanding of software design, development and analysis.
Courses allow you to gain a solid foundation in software used to solve various technology and business problems. Learn the fundamental skills that make up all forms of software development, including web applications, wearable devices and embedded systems, desktop tools and mobile apps. This major covers the languages, frameworks, algorithms and techniques commonly employed by modern software professionals.
You can apply the skills gained in math, science, and engineering coursework to the latest developments in software programming, networking, system design and project management.
You’ll have the opportunity to specialize your studies in software engineering, network engineering or tailor your program with courses from a variety of subject areas to enhance your computer science degree.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Johnson & Wales Providence (@jwuprovidence)
Dynamic Lab Spaces
Cybersecurity Center
The Cybersecurity Center is a state-of-the-art lab where students can access industry-standard equipment meant to simulate real-life challenges.
The Innovation Lab
The Innovation Lab is available to students of any major looking to learn the latest digital fabrication techniques. This lab is home to scanners, laser cutters, 3D printers and more.
Launch Cybersecurity Lab
Explore the Cybersecurity Center
Sample Courses
Survey of Programming Languages
Information Security with Cryptography
HCI/Usable Security
Database Concepts
Distributed Systems with TCP/IP
Network Security
Software Engineering
Software Verification, Validation, Testing and Security Systems
Modeling and Simulation
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
View a full course listing:
Providence
Career Possibilities
Cloud Operations Engineer
Computer Systems Analyst
IT Security Specialist
Network Architect/Engineer
Software Developer
Software Engineer
Application Developer
Systems Architect
IT Project Manager
Information Security Analyst
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Student Spotlight: Adam Scalzo ’24
Our hands-on computer science program goes beyond the textbooks – think intense coding sessions, cutting-edge labs, and real-world challenges. Choose from software engineering, network engineering, or exciting electives such as Robotics, Video Game Design, Forensic Investigation, or Data Science. With expert professors, internships, and clubs like HackJWU, your tech journey knows no bounds.
Featured Faculty
Peter Reid
Assistant Professor
Peter has been teaching at JWU since 2017; first as an adjunct professor, then joining full time in 2022. Prior to joining JWU, he held leadership...
Sukanya Suranauwarat
Sukanya Suranauwarat
Ph.D. (Computer Science and Communication Engineering), Kyushu University, Japan, Mar. 2002
Related Programs
Graphic Design
If you love to create visually captivating illustrations and dream of inspiring others through your work — this is the place for you. You can pursue your passion for graphic design in the heart of the Creative Capital in Rhode Island.
Cybersecurity
Did you know JWU has been recognized as a National Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education? In this program, you’ll blend physical reconnaissance and defense with modern information technology techniques, including setting up firewalls and scanning for viruses.
Data Analytics
In this interdisciplinary program, you’ll take courses in both JWU’s College of Engineering & Design and John Hazen White College of Arts & Sciences. You can also focus your interests through a minor in public health, environmental sustainability, marketing, economics or finance.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.