URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/healthcare-administration-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Bachelor of Science
Healthcare Administration
Program Overview
Combined Degree
Learn by Doing
Courses
Faculty
In this section
Learn the Healthcare System
—
And How to Change It
Developed in conjunction with local hospital administrators, the Healthcare Administration program at
JWU Providence
meets the needs of those looking to build a future workforce. Students experience a truly interdisciplinary program, combining courses in our
College of Business
and
College of Health & Wellness
while giving you flexibility to explore approaches to health and the healthcare industry.
Our coursework focuses on the future of healthcare financing and delivery — not just the history behind them — to prepare you for what’s next. Our students think about the problems of tomorrow and how those changes will impact how care is delivered in this country. Our graduates understand more than policy; they can apply healthcare theories to make systems better, more efficient, less costly and with better patient access and quality of care. Your experience centers on becoming immersed in the current healthcare system and evaluating policies, laws and regulations that drive the system. You will be challenged to change the system, helping to make it work optimally.
Request Information
Loading...
Get Your Master’s Faster
Students can earn a combined
Healthcare Administration B.S. and Master of Public Health (M.P.H.)
in as little as five years through JWU. Qualified students can complete five core M.P.H. graduate courses that will count toward their undergraduate Healthcare Administration degree.
Learn More About Combined Degrees
Applying Skills in Healthcare Administration
To deliver quality care, healthcare organizations need skilled, talented leaders to guide them in the right direction. At JWU, you’ll gain the skills required through case studies,
experiential education
, lectures and guest speakers from the healthcare industry. Our faculty encourage research projects, which might look like examining access to care within the United States or focusing on types of cancer care. In our Directed Experiential Education (DEE) opportunity, students can pursue their research interests for academic credit.
In this program, you will:
Engage in coursework across disciplines including public health, business, economics and communications while learning how to deliver culturally competent healthcare in the most appropriate setting
Gain a solid foundation in public health principles, with in-depth exposure to the components of the healthcare system’s financing and delivery
Expand your data skill set through coursework designed to create informed healthcare leaders
Learn to integrate cultural competency and sensitivity in the delivery of healthcare services while adhering to the legal and ethical principles that apply to individual and community healthcare needs
Sample Courses
Health Policy, Ethics and the Law
Introduction to Healthcare in the United States
Healthcare Organizational Theory and Management
Quality Improvement in Healthcare Organizations
Healthcare Research Ethics
Data and Evidence in Health: Research Capstone
In addition to classes, free elective credits can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
For a full course listing, visit the JWU Catalog:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Quality Improvement Officer
Research Coordinator
Policy Analyst
Hospital or Private Practice Administrator
Federal Health Services Administrator
Supervisory Medical Administrative Specialist
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Cara Sammartino
Professor + Department Chair
Sammartino is a health services investigator with experience in developing/analyzing program evaluation data, building analytical models, analyzing state legislation and research effective policy solutions.
Related Programs
Health Science
You
’
ll gain knowledge that will help prepare you for an entry-level career in healthcare or for graduate studies in fields such as medicine, physical therapy, public health and more.
Public Health
You’ll learn to assess and plan for community needs and explore a holistic approach to health through nutrition, exercise science, psychology, sociology, public health, and economics courses.
Accelerated Nursing (ABSN)
Our accelerated program is designed for individuals who already hold an earned bachelor’s degree or higher and wish to pursue nursing as a career.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Faculty Contact
Providence
Cara Sammartino
401-598-5223
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.