URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/physical-therapy-dpt.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Doctor of
Physical Therapy (DPT)
Program Overview
Program Structure
JWU Advantage
CURRICULUM
contact
In this section
DPT Home
Our Faculty
Mission & Outcomes
Essential Functions
How to Apply
Tuition & Fees
Student Data
Handbook & Policies
Accreditation
Functional Movement to Improve Quality of Life
JUNE 2025 START • 30 MONTHS (8 SEMESTERS) • COHORT MODEL
Imagine helping a patient recover mobility after a stroke or rebound from a painful sports injury. Physical therapists (PTs) work collaboratively with doctors, surgeons and healthcare providers to develop treatment plans for preventive, rehabilitative and functional patient care. JWU Providence’s Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) program trains the next generation for entry-level clinical practice in this growing field.
Building upon JWU’s expertise in healthcare, wellness and nutrition, this 8-semester, full-time program prepares graduates to take the National Physical Therapy Examination (NPTE) and to practice as doctors of physical therapy. Over the course of the program, learn to effectively develop and implement a PT exam, diagnosis, prognosis and care plan.
With 90 hours of Integrated Clinical Experiences (ICE), service work, and a research capstone, JWU’s DPT curriculum will help you gain a versatile skillset that can be applied to virtually all facets of PT, including outpatient therapy, inpatient rehabilitation and home health services.
Program Structure
Year 1: Build foundations in evidence-based medicine, musculoskeletal anatomy, patient safety, exercise physiology and biomechanics.
Year 2: Advance to interconnected body systems; begin clinical experience.
Year 3: Culminates in 40 weeks of full-time clinical
education. In addition, complete a research capstone and licensure review.
Hands-on Learning
90 hours of Integrated Clinical Education (ICE)
Up to two weeks of community service learning opportunities
3 systems-based practical exams
Qualifying exam and practical to prepare for clinical experience
Elective to explore specializations or expand research experience
What Makes JWU’s Doctorate in Physical Therapy Unique?
As the second program in the state and the only program in northern RI, JWU’s DPT program takes advantage of Rhode Island’s economic strengths in health services and education.
The DPT program is housed in the Bowen Center for Science and Innovation, an applied learning hub where you will work collaboratively with students from the
College of Health & Wellness
(COHW), including those in
occupational therapy
,
physician assistant studies
,
dietetics and applied nutrition
,
exercise and sports science
,
health science
and
public health
.
The
Bureau of Labor Statistics
(BLS) projects this field to grow by 15% through 2032 (an average of 13,900 projected annual job openings). As of May 2022, the BLS reports $97,720 as the median pay for physical therapists.
Interdisciplinary work is built into the curriculum, including:
Exploring the preventive benefits of nutrition with the
College of Food Innovation & Technology
(CFIT).
Assessing movement and working conditions in CFIT kitchens as a way to reduce workplace injuries.
Working with hospitality students to refine their ability to interpret communication cues.
Providing adaptive sport exercise and recreation offerings to individuals with disabilities, including wheelchair rugby and sled hockey.
I love seeing students get excited about experiential learning because it’s much easier to absorb knowledge when you’re actually doing it.
Program Director Paul Ullucci Jr., PT, Ph.D., DPT, ATC, SCS, CSCS
Physical Therapy Labs
Housed within JWU’s Bowen Center, the DPT program utilizes a range of customized labs and spaces, including:
Two dedicated physical therapy labs
Simulation labs:
Hospital room, ICU and emergency room
Labor and delivery rooms
Home setup with a kitchen, bathroom and bedroom
Cadaver lab
Pediatric lab
Human performance lab with Olympic lifting platforms and Biodex isokinetic devices
Assessment lab featuring human physiology testing equipment, including the BODPOD, a motion-capture system, Quark Metabolic Cart, Robotic Cycle Ergometer and a 25 mph/25° incline treadmill
Doctor of Physical Therapy Curriculum
SEMESTER 1
Patient Safety & Mobility
Exercise Physiology & Wellness
Foundations for Physical Therapy Practice
Foundations of Evidenced‐Based Medicine
Anatomy
SEMESTER 2
Integrated Clinical Experience & Professional Development I
Biomechanics
Spine Exam & Treatment
Extremity Exam & Treatment
Research Seminar I
SEMESTER 3
Orthopedic Culmination & Comprehensive Practicum
Pain Neuroscience & Psychosocial Wellness for Physical Therapy Practice
Pathophysiology
Health Promotion & Wellness
Cardiovascular, Pulmonary, Digestive & Endocrine Anatomy
Medically Complex Culmination & Comprehensive Practicum
SEMESTER 4
Professional Issues in Physical Therapy
DPT Elective*
Neuroanatomy for the Physical Therapist
Motor Control
Neurological Examination & Treatment
Essentials of Rehabilitation Technology
Research Seminar 2
SEMESTER 5
Integrated Clinical Experience & Professional Development II
Healthcare Management
Neuro Culmination & Comprehensive Practicum
Pharmacology for Physical Therapists
Pediatric Physical Therapy
Diagnostic Imaging
Physical Therapy for Genitourinary Health
Comprehensive Skills Review & Qualifying Examination
SEMESTER 6
Clinical Education Experience I
SEMESTER 7
Clinical Education Experience II
DPT Capstone
SEMESTER 8
Clinical Education Experience III
DPT Elective*
Licensure Review & PEAT
Review the full curriculum in the JWU Catalog:
JWU Providence Catalog: DPT
*Students are required to take 4 credits in DPT8250: DPT Elective but may take up to 8 credits inclusive of Physical Therapy outreach to underserved populations.
Our Expert Faculty
Our highly-experienced
DPT faculty
have an average of two decades of clinical experience, as well as involvement in such organizations as the American Physical Therapy Association (APTA), the Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education (CAPTE), and the Federation of State Boards of Physical Therapy (FSBPT), among others.
Paul Ullucci, Jr.
Director of the Physical Therapy Program
In addition to his role as program director, Ullucci currently serves as the chapter treasurer and member of the government affairs committee for RI APTA. In 2023, he was named to the National Athletic Trainers Association (NATA) Hall of Fame.
Emily Berthelette
Director of Clinical Education and Assistant Professor
As the DPT program’s director of clinical education, Berthelette has focused her efforts on securing a wide variety of unique clinical education sites for our students.
Justin Laferrier
Associate Director and Associate Professor
Laferrier’s areas of academic expertise include biomechanics; poly-trauma and amputation rehabilitation; adaptive sport, exercise, and recreation (SER); Ehlers Danlos Syndrome (EDS), and diagnostic imaging.
Program Contact
Paul A. Ullucci, Jr., PT, PhD, DPT, ATC, SCS, CSCS
DPT Program Director and Associate Professor
College of Health & Wellness
401-598-1375
Email
Effective November 12, 2024, Johnson & Wales University’s Doctor of Physical Therapy program has been granted Candidate for Accreditation status by the
Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education
(CAPTE) (3030 Potomac Ave., Suite 100, Alexandria, Virginia 22305-3085; phone: 703-706-3245; email:
accreditation@apta.org
). If needing to contact the program/institution directly, please call 401-598-1375 or
contact us by email
.
Candidate for Accreditation is an accreditation status of affiliation with the Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education that indicates the program may matriculate students in technical/professional courses. Achievement of Candidate for Accreditation status does not assure that the program will be granted Initial Accreditation.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.