URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/exercise-sport-science-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Bachelor of Science
Exercise and Sports Science
Program Overview
Learn by Doing
Labs
Student Spotlight
Courses
Faculty
In this section
Flex Your Future: Dive into Exercise Science
Are you fascinated by the human body, injury recovery and how nutrition, psychology and exercise come together holistically for health? Do you dream of making a significant impact on people
’
s lives through your work? If so, the Exercise and Sports Science program at
JWU Providence
is your perfect fit. This program will equip you with the skills and knowledge to excel in a variety of careers, from recreational therapist to exercise physiologist, medical program coordinator, athletic trainer and beyond.
The Exercise and Sports Science program stands out with its emphasis on holistic education and practical application. You
’
ll learn about the role of movement and exercise in maintaining a healthy life, performing various health, fitness and performance assessments that are crucial for your future career.
Courses can help prepare you for additional certifications such as Certified Strength and Conditioning Specialist (CSCS) and Certified Exercise Physiologist (C-EP), giving you a competitive edge in the job market.
Request Information
Loading...
Preparation for Graduate School
The exercise and sports science program prepares students for a variety of graduate degree programs. Through electives, students can complete prerequisites for medical school and physician assistant degree programs. Students are also encouraged to continue their education at JWU through the
Master of Science in Physician Assistant Studies
(MSPAS),
Master of Public Health
(MPH) or
Doctor of Physical Therapy
(DPT) program.
Hands-on Learning
Hands-on,
experiential education
is at the heart of our Exercise and Sports Science program. Students gain practical skills in our two new labs equipped with state-of-the-art technology, allowing for firsthand clinical practice and groundbreaking research. You’ll assist faculty with evaluating our varsity athletics teams, helping student-athletes reach peak performance, with the same technology used by Olympic athletes.
Why Study Exercise and Sports Science at JWU?
Small class sizes ensure personalized attention.
Extensive hands-on experience in classes and internships.
Collaborate with faculty on research projects to further enhance your skills.
Multiple classes prepare you for certifications like CSCS and C-EP.
Admissions is contingent upon you meeting the
technical standards
(PDF) for this program.
Exercise & Sports Science Hub
The Exercise & Sports Science Hub offers two lab spaces with state-of-the-art equipment to study body performance and conduct clinical research.
Exercise Science Lab
The Exercise Science Lab is equipped with state-of-the-art tools like the BOD POD® for body composition analysis, advanced ECG machines for heart health monitoring and cutting-edge metabolic carts for measuring oxygen and energy use.
Human Performance Lab
Located inside the Exercise Science Lab, this space helps athletes develop strength, speed, flexibility, balance and power. It features Olympic-sized platforms, a MEGA power rack, dumbbells, FMS devices for injury risk assessment and a Biodex isokinetic tester for predicting rotator cuff or hamstring injuries.
Launch Experience
Students Build Skills in the Exercise Science Lab
"I think it's great to have access to this new sports science lab, both as a student and as an athlete, because we get a chance to use some of the industry's leading equipment and get trained on what we'll be using in the field," shares Will Hughes ’23.
Sample Courses
Exercise Assessment and Prescription + Lab
Human Performance + Lab
Exercise for Special Populations
Kinesiology
Sports Nutrition
Human Anatomy and Physiology
Exercise Physiology
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
Explore the full JWU Catalog course listing:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Athletic Trainer
Strength & Conditioning Coach
Performance Coach
Fitness/Wellness Consultant
Personal Trainer
Exercise Physiologis
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Immersive Learning in Exercise Science
“We have state-of-the-art equipment in classrooms, as well as expert professors and mentors leading the program. Most importantly, being able to learn and try things together as a class boosts interest in wanting to learn. This program has allowed me to find my preference of industry and I am eager to continue this amazing path!”
- Gabriel Cruz Ramirez ’25
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Ray Spradlin
Assistant Professor
Ray A. Spradlin, Ph.D., attended the University of Florida where he studied the effect endurance exercise has on mitochondrial bioenergetics of prostate tumors and the role insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) plays in muscle disuse atrophy, function, metabolism, and exercise adaptations.
Paul Ullucci, Jr.
Director of the Physical Therapy Program
Ullucci’s research interests focus on the evaluation and treatment of concussion, whiplash injuries, chronic headache, TMJ, spine, manual therapy, injury prevention and reducing workers’ compensation costs for businesses.
Jonathan Noel
Associate Professor
Jonathan Noel, Ph.D., M.P.H. has extensive experience conducting alcohol and alcohol policy research. His research interests vary widely and have included tobacco, illicit drugs, environmental health, cancer and more.
Related Programs
Health Science
You'll gain knowledge that will help prepare you for an entry-level career in healthcare or for graduate studies in fields such as medicine, physical therapy, public health and more.
Dietetics and Applied Nutrition
You’ll focus on subjects ranging from nutrition science, culinary fundamentals and food service systems management.
Sports, Entertainment, Event — Management
In this program, you’ll learn to create exceptional guest experiences. You can also explore a specialization in sports management, live entertainment management or event management.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.