URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/mba-marketing.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Master of Business Administration
Marketing Concentration
In this section
Apply Now
Request Information
Visit JWU
Majors & Degrees
Minors
Program Overview
Marketers embrace strategy, creativity, and analytics to create and deliver value propositions for businesses. With an MBA in Marketing from Johnson & Wales University, you’ll develop your leadership and business skills to excel in your career in marketing.
Our MBA degree program with a marketing concentration provides students with extensive knowledge of marketing strategy within the framework of an overall business strategy. Our program emphasizes the importance of key stakeholders in a business environment while managing or revitalizing brands over time.
You’ll develop an understanding of various functional strategies to create and deliver value propositions throughout the program and your career in marketing. You’ll create growth strategies utilizing market penetration and development, product development, and diversification approaches. You’ll create hybrid distribution strategies that leverage partnerships and provide access to target markets utilizing traditional, online, and digital marketing channels. In addition, you’ll measure, analyze, and manage marketing performance efficiency and consumer insights with marketing analytics.
You’ll deliver interactive and omnichannel customer experiences that put customers at the center of all decisions — an integral part of many marketing functions. You’ll learn from expert faculty members with years of professional experience throughout the program.
The opportunities for marketing and digital marketing careers have never been greater. This program provides students with the understanding that strong brand positioning, strategy, stakeholder management, and authenticity provide the context for tactical and operational decisions in business.
PROFESSOR JOHN KRUPA
Sample Courses
Advertising & Promotional Strategies
Effective Leadership
Digital Analytics for Marketing Managers
Marketing in the Digital Environment
Social Media & Internet Marketing
Strategic Marketing
For a full course listing, visit the JWU Catalog:
Providence
Online
Featured MBA in Marketing Faculty
John Krupa
Professor
Professor Krupa has held positions in marketing, sales management, selling, counseling, consulting and education. His underlying philosophy is that people have unlimited potential.
Martin Sivula
Lecturer
Sivula has been with JWU since 1985, starting out as the director of academic computing; he currently serves as a professor of research and statistics.
Kristen Regine
Professor
Regine comes from the industries of marketing and retail, with expertise on consumer behavior, trends in the retail industry and consumer protection.
Faculty Contact
PROVIDENCE
Professor John Krupa
401-598-4482
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.