URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/university-explorations.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Undeclared: University Explorations
In this section
Program Overview
Ready to start your degree but not sure what to focus on?
You’re driven and passionate but not quite sure where to put your focus. Do you want to graduate on time but aren’t ready to commit to a major? Do your interests span across degree programs and range from psychology to engineering to media studies and more?
That’s where JWU’s Undeclared: University Explorations comes in — a structured path for exploring new fields of study while staying on track to graduation. With this program, you’ll take Arts & Sciences core courses and courses within your areas of interest. You’ll also work closely with your dedicated faculty mentor who will help guide you to the path YOU want to be on.
Multi-disciplinary options will ensure that you’re exposed to all JWU has to offer. Take various courses to discover which program best fits your interests, whether that’s science, hospitality, economics, health and wellness, graphic design or other options.
By the end of your first year, you’ll
choose a major
knowing that you’ve made the best choice for you.
Choosing a major is a big choice, but it doesn’t have to be a hasty decision.
PROFESSOR CARLA WHITE ELLIS, PH.D.
For an explanation of the career outcomes rate and other information, visit
JWU Student Consumer Information
.
Sample Courses
Design Theory and Practice
Introductory Psychology
Introduction to Health Professions
An Introduction to the Fields of Food, Food Service and Nutrition
Introduction to Media & Communication Studies
Introduction to Food Systems
Communication Skills
Explore the full JWU Catalog course listing:
Providence
Faculty Contact
Providence
Carla White Ellis, Ph.D., CFD
401-598-2018
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.