URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/majors-and-programs/business-administration-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Bachelor of Science
Business Administration
Program Overview
Advanced Degree
Learn by Doing
Student Spotlight
Courses
Faculty
In this section
Choose Your Own Path
Customization, flexibility and exploration — that’s what our Business Administration B.S.B.A. degree is all about. If you know you want a career in the world of business but aren’t quite sure what that career is, you’ll have the opportunity to see what you enjoy most from a wide array of foundational and free elective courses.
A faculty advisor will help you tailor your degree to your career goals by working with you to select electives, including internship opportunities, Directed Experiential Education (DEE) courses and/or study abroad credits.
In foundational business courses, you’ll learn about every level of an organization — from accounting and human resources to marketing and business analytics. Additional courses in the arts and sciences will teach you the professional and interpersonal skills you’ll need for success in any career. Ultimately, you’ll discover what it takes to be a leader, communicate effectively and manage projects.
Request Information
Loading...
Considering an Advanced Degree?
Many Business Administration students opt to pursue a graduate degree, and our accelerated and combined program options allow you to earn an undergraduate and graduate degree in less time. Get a head start on your MBA with a specialization in marketing, finance, HR management and more.
Learn More
We Mean Business in the Classroom
Whether you fall in love with finance, become a master of marketing or hone in on human resource management, the business world requires a variety of
skills and experience
. You’ll be prepared thanks to interactive courses, exciting internship opportunities and industry-experienced faculty.
In this program, you can:
Participate in Directed Experiential Education courses, in which you’ll spend a semester working on a project for a real company.
Intern at local companies and organizations. Students in this program have recently interned at the RI Chamber of Commerce, Kohl’s, Amica Mutual and more.
Learn from faculty with years of experience in the industry as consultants, authors, business owners and more.
Pitch your own business idea in the annual JWU Sharkfest competition for a chance to win a cash prize to invest in your business.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Johnson & Wales Providence (@jwuprovidence)
Business Ideas Take Flight
The recently revamped Larry Friedman Center for Entrepreneurship (AKA “The Launch Pad”) offers a collaborative space for students to develop business plans and ideas, meet with mentors and access resources needed to bring their idea to life.
Sample Courses
Business Analytics
Operations & Supply Chain Management
Marketing Foundations
Human Resource Management
Finance
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
Explore the full JWU Catalog course listing:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Financial Analyst
Marketing Manager
Supply Chain Manager
Entrepreneur
Human Resource Specialist
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Bernard Kenney
Assistant Professor
Assistant Professor Kenney has taught a variety of courses in management, marketing and advertising from the introductory through senior level.
Nancy Tourani
Associate Professor
Associate Professor Tourani is a researcher and teacher with an expertise in strategy and strategic alliances.
Isaac Damoah
Associate Professor
Prior to joining JWU, Associate Professor Damoah held principal positions at various colleges and universities; he also served as a project management consultant.
Related Programs
Business Studies
In just two years, you can earn your B.S. through JWU’s accelerated Business Studies program if you have an associate degree or equivalent credits in any field.
Entrepreneurship
In this 4-year entrepreneurship degree program, you’ll benefit from a diverse entrepreneurial curriculum with business and general education coursework while also completing your business administration degree.
Finance
JWU’s Finance program gives you an advantage. Its distinct, student-centered teaching and hands-on experiential approach to learning help make you job-ready.
Faculty Contact
James Woods, Ph.D.
Assistant Professor and Department Chair
Department of Management and Marketing
980-598-3123
Email
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.