URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/undergraduate/marketing/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Bachelor’s
>
BS Marketing & Advertising
PROGRAM DETAILS
4 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Are you passionate about strengthening the consumer-brand connection? To stand out in today’s crowded marketplace, effective advertisers and marketers need to be innovative thinkers who understand brand-focused strategies that execute a consistent message across multiple platforms and channels. With our online Bachelor of Science in Marketing & Advertising degree you pursue a stronger brand connection through expertise in pillar concepts across product development, social media marketing, marketing technologies, consumer behavior and more.
Whether your career aspirations are in data analytics, product development, digital marketing, sales management consumer insights or social media marketing, this online bachelor’s degree in marketing can help you transform your excitement for brand development to a career passion in any number of industries.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Business.
What You'll Learn
Apply the major concepts, skills and values of marketing and advertising in business situations.
Communicate effectively to diverse audiences, purposes and situations through a variety of professional methods required in the marketing industry.
Use decision-support tools to resolve contemporary business issues using ethical business practices.
Analyze research and use critical thinking to identify and recommend appropriate solutions for client/brand marketing challenges.
Develop branding and marketing strategies that are ethically sound and align with business objectives for local, national and global brands.
Take the next step in your marketing or advertising career with an online bachelor's degree in marketing & advertising from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Undergraduate Rates 2024 - 2025
$495
Per Credit Hours
$1,485
Per 3 Credit Hours
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Are you eligible for a scholarship or a grant? Check out all your options and see if you qualify.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
ONLINE MARKETING & Advertising BACHELOR’S DEGREE Sample Courses
Coursework for your marketing bachelor’s degree online covers advertising and marketing concepts, including content creation, consumer behavior, market research, international marketing, marketing technologies, and more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Marketing & Advertising Major Courses
Course Title
Market Research and Consumer Insights
Brand Marketing and Analytics
Social and Digital Media Marketing
Global Strategic Marketing and Advertising
Marketing & Advertising Major Electives
Course Title
Influencer Marketing
Content Creation and Generative AI
Integrated Search Engine Marketing Campaigns
Consumer Behavior
Applied/Experiential Learning
Course
College of Business Internship
OR
Directed Experiential Education
OR
Study Abroad
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your BS marketing & advertising online? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application.
If you’re ready for a degree that can position you for your next career move, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH A BS in marketing & advertising DEGREE?
Your JWU marketing & advertising degree positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in marketing. Graduates of this program have found employment in companies such as:
Fidelity Investments
Enterprise Rent-A-Car
Marriott International
Amazon
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in marketing. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.