URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/graduate/master-public-administration/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Master’s
>
MPA General
PROGRAM DETAILS
2 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Ready to serve the greater public good through your leadership? With our online Master of Public Administration you can prepare to take the lead in making the most of public and community resources and initiatives. This MPA degree online program develops your public service leadership approach to a number of settings — from government administration to nonprofit management and more.
Students in this program will study leadership, personnel management, policy evaluation, and ethical governance practices. This online program links theory, policy, and practice, giving students the opportunity to learn and utilize skills required for leadership positions in both the public and third sectors.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s John Hazen White College of Arts & Sciences.
What You'll Learn
Critically analyze and use knowledge of academic theory, legal issues and/or regulations to inform ethical practice and policy formation within public and third sector organizations/agencies.
Manage and apply effective standards of public and third sector governance within organizational structures.
Assess and effectively manage sector-specific functions, programs and resources.
Advance professional communication, public outreach and responsiveness standards in a manner that promotes accountability, inclusion and other public service values.
Take the next step in your public administration career with an MPA degree online from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Graduate Rates 2024-2025
$842
Per Credit Hour
$2,526
Per 3 Credit Hours
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Learn how you may qualify for a scholarship, including our 20% Graduate Success Scholarship.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
ONLINE MPA PROGRAM Sample Courses
Coursework for your online MPA degree covers the essentials for effective oversight of public service resources and initiatives, including leadership approaches, evidence-based decision-making, personnel management, policy evaluation and ethical governance. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
MPA Core Courses
Course Title
Effective Leadership
Program Evaluation
Strategic Planning and Leadership in Nonprofit Organizations
Public Personnel Administration
Public Policy Analysis
Program Evaluation
MPA Elective Courses
Course Title
Social, Community and Restorative Justice
Leading and Managing Large-Scale Transformation
Counterterrorism
Emergency Management and Planning
Homeland Security
Ethics, Corporate Social Responsibility and Law
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your online MPA program? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application and no GRE or GMAT requirements.
If you already hold an undergraduate degree and you’re ready for more, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH A Master of Public Administration DEGREE?
Your JWU MPA degree online positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in public administration. Whether you are looking to advance or start your public administration career, this program can help you prepare for the following roles:
Social and Community Service Managers
General and Operations Managers
Urban and Regional Planners
Compliance Managers
Regulatory Affairs Managers
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in public administration. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.
“The online master’s program was flexible enough for me to give my son the time that he needed, while working and going to school. I highly recommend the MPA program for anyone who aspires to become a leader in nonprofit and mission-focused organizations.”
- Emmeline Orrellana, ‘24
Read the Full Story