URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/graduate/MBA-finance/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Master’s
>
MBA Finance
PROGRAM DETAILS
2 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
The evolving corporate environment requires business competencies, operations and supply chain, business strategy, financial management, leadership, and creative – and critical-thinking skills. Whether you are a seasoned finance professional or just breaking into the business, you can give your future a strategic edge with a Master of Business Administration in Finance. Developed and updated in collaboration with industry leaders, this program explores the business competencies, leadership principles, and creative-thinking skills needed to make your mark as your organization’s thought-leader in finance and financial matters.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Business.
What You'll Learn
Gather, interpret and analyze research to inform decision-making at operational and strategic levels of an organization.
Use advanced communication skills and awareness of cultural differences in global and domestic business interactions.
Analyze problems from a diverse perspective, propose effective solutions and evaluate the impact of executive decisions.
Assess and evaluate business entities taking into account cross-functional environments as they affect ethical decision making in domestic and global organizations.
Apply knowledge of financial theories and practices to solve organizational and consumer economic challenges.
Ready to advance your career and make your mark with an MBA in Finance from Johnson & Wales University? Take the next step.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Graduate Rates 2024-2025
$842
Per Credit Hour
$2,526
Per 3 Credit Hours
Scholarships Available for Eligible Students
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Learn how you may qualify for a scholarship, including our 20% Graduate Success Scholarship.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
Online MBA IN FINANCE Sample Courses
Coursework for your Master of Business Administration program with a concentration in Finance offers the strategies, and analytical skills needed to pursue career success in the evolving corporate environment. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Finance Courses
Course Title
Principles of Risk and Insurance
Fundamentals of Investment and Portfolio Management
Applied Behavioral Finance
Institutional Portfolio Management
MBA Core Courses
Course Title
Financial Management
Operations Management
Effective Leadership
Strategic Marketing
Business Foundation Courses
Course Title
Business Fundamentals
Quantitative Methods in Business
NOTE: With regards to Business Foundation courses, upon receipt of your transcripts, your prior coursework will be evaluated to determine the ability to waive out of these two courses. If you need to complete one or both of the foundation courses, you may take these courses as part of your program or test out of these courses via exam. Your dedicated admissions associate will discuss with you the option that will work best for you.
In addition, please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Are you ready to start the journey to a graduate degree in finance? It could be easier than you think, especially at Johnson & Wales University. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application and no GRE or GMAT requirements.
If you already hold an undergraduate degree and you’re ready for more, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH AN MBA in Finance DEGREE?
Your JWU MBA with a concentration in finance gives you the opportunity to build the skills, gain the insights, and earn the credential you need to best position yourself for long-term success in relevant finance careers in any company and any industry. Graduates of this program have found employment in companies such as:
Bank of America
Fidelity Investments
Citizens Bank
Wakefern Food Corp.
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in finance. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.
"Looking towards the future, I can foresee a time when I may need to pivot to a new occupation. As I get older, the time may come when I stop operating and take an executive leadership position. Of all the programs I looked at, Johnson & Wales was the best fit for me. The classes offered online through JWU CPS were the types of classes I was looking for. I felt that JWU CPS’ 100% online platform of learning fit my lifestyle with work and family."
– Dr. Ajay Patel, '26
Read the Full Story