URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/graduate/mba-sport-leadership/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Master’s
>
MBA Sport Leadership
PROGRAM DETAILS
2 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
In any sport, the groundwork for a championship is laid well before players take the field. From amateur leagues to college and pro teams, effective operational leadership from business-focused administrators helps keep the game going strong. Let Johnson & Wales University help you turn your love for sports into a career with an online MBA in Sport Leadership. Students in this program will study contemporary leadership, communication strategies, operations, and global issues in sport, as well as traditional business methods such as finance, economics, and business policy.
As the global sports industry continues to grow, so does the need for business-focused administrators within athletic organizations. Set your mark in the field with our online MBA – Sport Leadership degree.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Business and College of Hospitality Management.
What You'll Learn
Gather, interpret and analyze research to inform decision-making at operational and strategic levels of an organization.
Use advanced communication skills and awareness of cultural differences in global and domestic business interactions.
Analyze problems from a diverse perspective, propose effective solutions and evaluate the impact of executive decisions.
Assess and evaluate business entities taking into account cross-functional environments as they affect ethical decision-making in domestic and global organizations.
Connect leadership principles and knowledge of the sport industry operations to advance organizational objectives and support strategic initiatives.
Ready to pursue a career in sport leadership with a Master of Business Administration in Sport Management from Johnson & Wales University? Take the next step.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Graduate Rates 2024-2025
$842
Per Credit Hour
$2,526
Per 3 Credit Hours
Scholarships Available for Eligible Students
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Learn how you may qualify for a scholarship, including our 20% Graduate Success Scholarship.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
Online MBA SPORT MANAGEMENT Sample Courses
Coursework for your sports MBA program will help you develop effective skills in every phase of the sport management and business game — from operations management to strategies for more effective communications in and out of your organization. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Sport Management Courses
Course Title
Sports and Entertainment Venues & Events, Development and Management
Global Issues in Sport Leadership
Contemporary Leadership Strategies in Sport
Effective Communication Strategies in Sport
MBA Core Courses
Course Title
Financial Reporting and Control
Operations Management
Effective Leadership
Strategic Marketing
Business Foundations Courses
Course Title
Business Fundamentals
Quantitative Methods in Business
NOTE: With regards to Business Foundation courses, upon receipt of your transcripts, your prior coursework will be evaluated to determine the ability to waive out of these two courses. If you need to complete one or both of the foundation courses, you may take these courses as part of your program or test out of these courses via exam. Your dedicated admissions associate will discuss with you the option that will work best for you.
In addition, please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Are you ready for a game-changing sport leadership graduate program? Your leadership in sports degree could be easier than you think, especially at Johnson & Wales University. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application for your online MBA program and no GRE or GMAT requirements.
If you already hold an undergraduate degree and you’re ready for more, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH AN MBA in Sport Leadership DEGREE?
From premier leagues to amateur clubs, the sports and athletics industry is big business. The right sports leadership degree can help set you up for a winning career. At JWU College of Professional Studies, our MBA program in Sport Management offers the skills, insights, and MBA credential you need for operational and management success in clubs, teams, leagues, and relevant sport-adjacent businesses around the world. Graduates of this program have found employment in companies such as:
Reebok
Armenia Basketball
YMCA
Boys & Girls Club
Harris Blitzer Sports & Entertainment
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in sport leadership. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.