URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/graduate/MBA-Marketing/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Master’s
>
MBA Marketing
PROGRAM DETAILS
2 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Marketers embrace strategy, creativity, and analytics to create and deliver value propositions for businesses. The most competitive brands are the ones that build relationships with the target audience, one member at a time. That’s the promise of effective marketing.
With an MBA in Marketing from Johnson & Wales University, you’ll develop your leadership and business skills to excel in your career in marketing. Our Master of Business Administration in Marketing will give you the tools, strategies, and insights you need to embrace strategy, creativity, and analytics for valuable brand building opportunities for your organization — and leadership roles for you.
You’ll deliver interactive and omnichannel customer experiences that put customers at the center of all decisions — an integral part of many marketing functions. You’ll learn from expert faculty members with years of professional experience throughout the program.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Business.
What You'll Learn
Gather, interpret and analyze research to inform decision-making at operational and strategic levels of an organization.
Use advanced communication skills and awareness of cultural differences in global and domestic business interactions.
Analyze problems from a diverse perspective, pose effective solutions and evaluate the impact of executive decisions.
Assess and evaluate business entities taking into account cross-functional environments as they affect ethical decision making in domestic and global organizations.
Create marketing and branding strategies within the framework of business strategy, leveraging traditional, digital and social media that influence targeted stakeholders.
Take the next step in your marketing career with an online MBA in Marketing from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Graduate Rates 2024-2025
$842
Per Credit Hour
$2,526
Per 3 Credit Hours
Scholarships Available for Eligible Students
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Learn more about how you may qualify for a scholarship, including our 20% Graduate Success Scholarship.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
Online MBA IN MARKETING Sample Courses
Coursework for your marketing MBA covers a number of operational and leadership essentials for marketing. You’ll explore concepts for market penetration, product development, leveraging partnerships, different media marketing channels, revitalizing brands, marketing analytics, value propositions, and more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Marketing Courses
Course Title
Advertising and Promotional Strategies
Brand Management
Digital Analytics for Marketing Managers
Social Media & Internet Marketing
MBA Core Courses
Course Title
Global Economic Environments
Operations Management
Effective Leadership
Strategic Marketing
Business Foundations Courses
Course Title
Business Fundamentals
Quantitative Methods in Business
NOTE: With regards to Business Foundation courses, upon receipt of your transcripts, your prior coursework will be evaluated to determine the ability to waive out of these two courses. If you need to complete one or both of the foundation courses, you may take these courses as part of your program or test out of these courses via exam. Your dedicated admissions associate will discuss with you the option that will work best for you.
In addition, please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your Master of Business Administration with a concentration in Marketing? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application and no GRE or GMAT requirements.
If you already hold an undergraduate degree and you’re ready for more, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH AN MBA in Marketing DEGREE?
Your JWU MBA with a concentration in marketing offers the executive-level insights into branding and marketing needed to pursue leadership roles throughout the marketing world.
Whether you are looking to advance or start your marketing management career, this program can help you prepare for the following roles:
Marketing Manager
Search Marketing Strategist
Market Research Analyst
Public Relations Manager
Business Intelligence Analyst
Advertising and Promotions Manager
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in marketing. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.