URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/graduate/MBA-human-resource-management/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Master’s
>
MBA Human Resource Management
PROGRAM DETAILS
2 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Want to advance your human resources career? Dive deeper into the realm of recruitment and retention, organizational behavior and other aspects of human resources management with a specialized online MBA from Johnson & Wales University. Curriculum for our MBA in Human Resource Management online program was developed and updated in collaboration with students, faculty and industry leaders. It offers the strategic insights, creative-thinking skills, innovative techniques and advanced business credentials you need to pursue leadership opportunities in today’s dynamic HR landscape.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Business.
What You'll Learn
How to gather, interpret, and analyze research for operational and strategic decision-making.
Effectively communicate with an awareness of cultural differences—globally and domestically.
Analyze issues, propose solutions, and evaluate the impact of executive-level decisions.
Evaluate businesses taking into account cross-functional environments as they affect ethical decision-making in domestic and global organizations.
Apply professional standards and practices for ethical conduct, legal requirements and regulatory guidelines for administering HR policies and procedures.
Ready to pursue a career in human resources with a Master of Business Administration in Human Resource Management from Johnson & Wales University? Take the next step.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Graduate Rates 2024-2025
$842
Per Credit Hour
$2,526
Per 3 Credit Hours
Scholarship Available for Eligible Students
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Learn more about how you may qualify for a scholarship, including our 20% Graduate Success Scholarship.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
Online MBA HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT Sample Courses
Core courses for your online MBA program will help you develop effective business administration skills for every HR responsibility — from recruiting strategies to labor and employee relations. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Human Resources Courses
Course Title
Human Resource Management
Labor and Employee Relations
Strategic Recruiting, Retention and Succession
Strategic Compensation and Benefits
Organizational Training and Development
MBA Core Courses
Course Title
Operations Management
Effective Leadership
Ethics, Corporate Social Responsibility and Law
Evidence-Based Research in Management
Business Foundations Courses
Course Title
Business Fundamentals
Quantitative Methods in Business
NOTE: With regards to Business Foundation courses, upon receipt of your transcripts, your prior coursework will be evaluated to determine the ability to waive out of these two courses. If you need to complete one or both of the foundation courses, you may take these courses as part of your program or test out of these courses via exam. Your dedicated admissions associate will discuss with you the option that will work best for you.
In addition, please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
If you’re serious about advancing your HR career to leadership levels, then you’re ready for a career-building online MBA – Human Resource Management degree from Johnson & Wales University. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to guide you through the process and answer all your questions, from tuition costs to career services. We cap it off with a free application for your online master’s program and no GRE or GMAT requirements.
If you already hold an undergraduate degree and you’re ready for more, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH AN MBA in Human resource management DEGREE?
Every organization needs the support of a top-quality HR department. Leaders with the right qualities — and qualifications — are needed to keep them running smoothly. The right education can make a world of difference. At JWU, our online MBA in Human Resource Management offers the skills, insights, and MBA credential you need for operational and management success for any company in any industry.
Graduates of this program have found employment in companies such as:
Amazon
Marriott International
MBTA
General Dynamics
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in human resource management. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.
“After I enrolled, things just sort of clicked; I can relate what I am doing on the job back to what I’m learning in school. I recommend investing in an education at JWU CPS because the school cares about their students’ success — and everyone at JWU cares about you!”
- Rasheeda Brooks Johnson, ’24
Read the Full Story