URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/graduate/mba-data-analytics/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Master’s
>
MBA Data Analytics
PROGRAM DETAILS
2 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Data-driven decision making has become increasingly prevalent and important in the business world, as companies rely heavily on data to guide their choices in a number of areas relevant to their operations. An ongoing challenge in today’s business environment involves individuals making the professional transition to managing people and operations while continuing to apply the professional knowledge and expertise that earned them the promotion in the first place.
That’s where we come in.
The online MBA Data Analytics program at JWU utilizes STEM-focused coursework that demonstrates how to apply data-driven decision making from a business managerial perspective, all while laying the groundwork of higher-level business fundamentals. You’ll gain an understanding of statistical analysis, data visualization, predictive modeling financial management and more. In addition, your courses will reinforce business competencies, leadership skills, and managerial theories to become a valued member of your organization.
Business runs on data. Equip yourself with the expertise employers crave in this data-driven era. Whether you’re aiming for a promotion in your current role or seeking new opportunities in fields such as finance, marketing, or consulting, our MBA in Data Analytics will set you apart as a strategic thinker and problem solver.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Business.
What You'll Learn
Gather, interpret and analyze research to inform decision-making at operational and strategic levels of an organization.
Use advanced communication skills and awareness of cultural differences in global and domestic business interactions.
Analyze problems from a diverse perspective, propose effective solutions and evaluate the impact of executive decisions.
Assess and evaluate business entities taking into account cross-functional environments as they affect ethical decision making in domestic and global organizations.
Integrate the knowledge of mathematics, statistics, and computer science to collect, analyze and interpret data.
Take the next step in your data analytics career with an online MBA in data analytics from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Graduate Rates 2024-2025
$842
Per Credit Hour
$2,526
Per 3 Credit Hours
Scholarships Available for Eligible Students
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Learn more about how you may qualify for a scholarship, including our 20% Graduate Success Scholarship.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
Online MBA IN DATA ANALYTICS Sample Courses
Coursework for your online MBA data analytics program develops expertise at the intersection of business leadership and data analytics in key area such as statistical analysis, data visualization, predictive modeling financial management and more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Data Analytics Courses
Course Title
Data Visualization
Big Data Analytics
Introduction to Predictive Modeling
Research Methods in Data Analytics
MBA Core Courses
Course Title
Tools for Data Analytics
Statistical Analysis
Global Economic Environments
Effective Leadership
Business Foundations Courses
Course Title
Business Fundamentals
Quantitative Methods in Business
NOTE: With regards to Business Foundation courses, upon receipt of your transcripts, your prior coursework will be evaluated to determine the ability to waive out of these two courses. If you need to complete one or both of the foundation courses, you may take these courses as part of your program or test out of these courses via exam. Your dedicated admissions associate will discuss with you the option that will work best for you.
In addition, please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your online MBA in Data Analytics? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application and no GRE or GMAT requirements.
If you already hold an undergraduate degree and you’re ready for more, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH AN MBA in Data Analytics DEGREE?
Your JWU MBA with a concentration in data analytics offers the executive business competencies and strategic-thinking skills needed to pursue leadership roles in the field of data analytics. Explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in data intelligence. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.