URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/graduate/MBA-Organizational-Psychology/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Master’s
>
MBA Organizational Psychology
PROGRAM DETAILS
2 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7-week
course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Workplace dynamics matter. Smart organizations are placing more emphasis on corporate culture, employee training, talent development, and more. As such, careers in organizational psychology are on the rise. With an MBA in organizational psychology, you can stand out as a leader who not only understands the required business competencies but also has a firm grasp on what drives individual and team success.
This online MBA in Organizational Psychology will help you understand and guide business performance through the lens of human psychology as it relates to the workplace. You will become better informed on the practice of general management and increase your ability to make decisions through the lens of organizational psychology.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Business and John Hazen White College of Arts & Sciences.
What You'll Learn
Gather, interpret and analyze research to inform decision-making at operational and strategic levels of an organization.
Use advanced communication skills and awareness of cultural differences in global and domestic business interactions.
Analyze problems from a diverse perspective, propose effective solutions and evaluate the impact of executive decisions.
Assess and evaluate business entities taking into account cross-functional environments as they affect ethical decision making in domestic and global organizations.
Evaluate and integrate relevant academic/professional literature to formulate action plans to improve group and team performance in alignment with organizational competency models.
Take the next step in your organizational psychology career with an MBA organizational psychology online from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Graduate Rates 2024-2025
$842
Per Credit Hour
$2,526
Per 3 Credit Hours
Scholarships Available for Eligible Students
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Learn more about how you may qualify for a scholarship, including our 20% Graduate Success Scholarship.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
ONLINE MBA IN ORGANIZATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY Sample Courses
Coursework for your MBA in Organizational Psychology online covers the fundamentals of business management and leadership through the lens of organizational psychology, in key areas such as decision-making, ethical leadership, communication, and operational management. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Organizational Psychology Courses
Course Title
Team Dynamics
Organization Psychology
Talent Development
Attitude and Motivation in the Workplace
MBA Core Courses
Course Title
Operations Management
Effective Leadership
Ethics, Corporate Social Responsibility and Law
Evidence-Based Research in Management
Business Foundations Courses
Course Title
Business Fundamentals
Quantitative Methods in Business
NOTE: With regards to Business Foundation courses, upon receipt of your transcripts, your prior coursework will be evaluated to determine the ability to waive out of these two courses. If you need to complete one or both of the foundation courses, you may take these courses as part of your program or test out of these courses via exam. Your dedicated admissions associate will discuss with you the option that will work best for you.
In addition, please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your online MBA in organizational psychology? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application and no GRE or GMAT requirements.
If you already hold an undergraduate degree and you’re ready for more, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH AN MBA in organizational psychology DEGREE?
Your JWU online MBA with a concentration in Organizational Psychology positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in business leadership and organizational psychology. Graduates of this program have found employment in companies such as:
Fidelity Investments
TIAA
Boston Medical Center
Northwestern Mutual
AAA
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in organizational psychology. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.
“Working full-time in human resources and studying organizational psychology during a global pandemic provided me with both the challenge and opportunity that I anticipated pursuing an MBA — and it went above and beyond expectations! ‘Imposter syndrome’ is trending, but it has also been a reality for me throughout my career. And my degree personally validates me as a professional.”
- Roanna Valdellon, ‘21
Read the Full Story