URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/graduate/mba/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Master’s
>
MBA General
PROGRAM DETAILS
2 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Considering taking your career to a management or leadership level? Whether you are just starting out in your field of expertise or are ready to advance, this online Master of Business Administration degree is designed to cultivate your business management approach to a number of areas — from finance to marketing to HR and more. This master’s business administration online program prepares you for strategic oversight within many industries and operational business settings.
Prove to employers that you have the qualifications needed to excel in the global marketplace. At JWU, we can help you learn to critically analyze information through a business administration lens to solve high-level problems and build the leadership and strategic skills you need to excel.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Business.
What You'll Learn
Gather, interpret and analyze research to inform decision-making at operational and strategic levels of an organization.
Use advanced communication skills and awareness of cultural differences in global and domestic business interactions.
Analyze problems from a diverse perspective, propose effective solutions and evaluate the impact of executive decisions.
Assess and evaluate business entities taking into account cross-functional environments as they affect ethical decision making in domestic and global organizations.
Take the next step in your business administration career with an online master’s of business administration degree from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Graduate Rates 2024-2025
$842
Per Credit Hour
$2,526
Per 3 Credit Hours
Scholarships Available for Eligible Students
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Learn more about how you may qualify for a scholarship, including our 20% Graduate Success Scholarship.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
ONLINE MBA PROGRAM Sample Courses
Coursework for your online master of business administration degree covers the essentials of business leadership — from finance to strategy to operations management and much more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
MBA Core Courses
Course Title
Financial Management
Effective Leadership
Ethics, Corporate Social Responsibility and Law
Strategic Marketing
MBA Elective Courses
Course Title
Team Dynamics
Global Business Negotiations
Social Entrepreneurship
Social Media & Internet Marketing
Business Foundations Courses
Course Title
Business Fundamentals
Quantitative Methods in Business
NOTE: With regards to Business Foundation courses, upon receipt of your transcripts, your prior coursework will be evaluated to determine the ability to waive out of these two courses. If you need to complete one or both of the foundation courses, you may take these courses as part of your program or test out of these courses via exam. Your dedicated admissions associate will discuss with you the option that will work best for you.
In addition, please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your master’s of business administration online? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application and no GRE or GMAT requirements.
If you already hold an undergraduate degree and you’re ready for more, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH A MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION DEGREE?
Your JWU MBA offers the executive business competencies and strategic-thinking skills needed to pursue leadership roles throughout the business world. Graduates of this program have found employment in companies such as:
Marriott International
CVS Health
Bank of America
Fidelity Investments
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in business. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.
“Choosing JWU for my MBA was an easy decision due to the institution's renowned reputation for experiential learning. JWU's College of Professional Studies provided a personalized online education experience that exceeded my expectations. Balancing my part-time position as an executive assistant and managing my own business was only possible with the flexibility offered by online learning.”
– Mayra Gonzalez, '23 MBA
Read the Full Story