URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/graduate/ms-finance/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Master’s
>
MS Finance
PROGRAM DETAILS
2 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Have you been thinking about taking your finance career to the next level? Build on your professional expertise in finance through business management concepts with an online Master of Science in Finance. This MS in Finance online program blends management and leadership focuses with advanced aspects of finance to prepare you to take the lead in strategic performance within the finance industry.
The Master of Science in Finance degree program prepares students for career advancement in a variety of managerial and professional positions in a wide range of firms. This program provides students with the knowledge they need to apply complex financial technology for value creation in an ethical manner. Coursework offered by this program may be applied to industry specific certifications.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Business.
What You'll Learn
Apply knowledge of financial theories and practices to solve organizational and consumer economic challenges.
Apply appropriate quantitative and qualitative methods to solve financial problems.
Demonstrate effective oral and written communication skills as a foundation for lifelong learning.
Critique and interpret financial data to assess and improve entity performance within a moral and ethical framework.
Take the next step in your finance career with a master’s degree in finance online from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Graduate Rates 2024-2025
$842
Per Credit Hour
$2,526
Per 3 Credit Hours
Scholarships Available for Eligible Students
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Learn how you may qualify for a scholarship, including our 20% Graduate Success Scholarship.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
ONLINE MASTER Of Science - FINANCE Courses
Coursework for your master’s degree in finance online covers advanced concepts and practices within the finance industry—from financial management to financial reporting to portfolio management and more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Finance Core Courses
Course Title
Personal Financial Planning
Financial Management
Financial Reporting and Control
Fundamentals of Investment and Portfolio Management
Statistical Methods
Finance Elective Courses
Course Title
Individual Taxation
Principles of Risk and Insurance
Strategic Financial Planning
Applied Behavioral Finance
Institutional Portfolio Management
Business Foundations Courses
Course Title
Business Fundamentals
Quantitative Methods in Business
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your Master of Science in Finance online? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application and no GRE or GMAT requirements.
If you already hold an undergraduate degree and you’re ready for more, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH AN MS in Finance DEGREE?
Your JWU master of finance degree positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in finance. Graduates of this program have found employment in companies such as:
Bank of America
Fidelity Investments
CVS Health
USAA
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in finance. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.
“The online finance program through JWU CPS is making me a better and sharper employee by increasing my understanding about the business and math side of my industry. Every teacher I’ve had at JWU is absolutely amazing. Everyone at JWU – from my academic advisor to all the faculty – really cares.”
– Jonathan Garrigues, ’24
Read the Full Story