URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/graduate/ms-hospitality-management/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Master’s
>
MS Hospitality Management
PROGRAM DETAILS
2 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Renowned in the hospitality world for preparing its students for professional careers in the industry, Johnson & Wales University can help you achieve the leadership skills you need to reach your career goals with an online Master of Science in Hospitality Management.
In addition to major courses that examine all aspects of the field — from financial management to strategic marketing to organizational behavior — students have the opportunity to choose elective courses that align with their career objectives and prepare them for various industry-respected certifications upon graduation. Through this degree program, you can get the expertise you need to design top-flight leisure, dining, travel, and recreation experiences in hotels, restaurants, resorts and many more settings.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Hospitality Management.
What You'll Learn
Demonstrate advanced communication and presentation skills.
Differentiate cultural norms in global and domestic business interactions to effectively lead teams.
Critically analyze and critique research, financial performance and strategic plans.
Formulate ethical strategies to mitigate operational challenges within the hospitality industry.
Take the next step in your hospitality management career with an online master's hospitality management degree from Johnson & Wales University. S
tart your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Graduate Rates 2024-2025
$842
Per Credit Hour
$2,526
Per 3 Credit Hours
Scholarships Available for Eligible Students
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Learn how you may qualify for a scholarship, including our 20% Graduate Success Scholarship.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
ONLINE MASTER’S IN HOSPITALITY MANAGEMENT Sample Courses
Coursework for your MS hospitality management online covers the essentials of oversight within hospitality and tourism, including financial management, strategic planning, communications, operational management and more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Hospitality Core Courses
Course Title
Strategic Marketing in Service Dominant Logic
Organizational Behavior in the Hospitality Industry
Competitive Strategies in Hospitality
Hospitality and Tourism Global Issues
Hospitality Elective Courses
Course Title
Franchising and Licensing
Experience, Adventure and Education Tourism
Event Leadership and Planning
Event Operations & Risk Management
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your MS hospitality management online program? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application and no GRE or GMAT requirements.
If you already hold an undergraduate degree and you’re ready for more, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH AN Online MS in hospitality management DEGREE?
Your JWU master’s in hospitality management online positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in hospitality management. Graduates of this program have found employment in companies such as:
Marriott International
Sheraton Hotels & Resorts
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts
Marriott International
Biltmore
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in hospitality management. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.