URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/graduate/MS-organizational-psychology/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Master’s
>
MS Organizational Psychology
PROGRAM DETAILS
2 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Want to blend your passion for human behavior and psychology with organizational performance? Our online Master of Science in Organizational Psychology degree program prepares you for the best of both worlds through a degree that cultivates your expertise in the human behavioral side of organizational fitness. This master’s organizational psychology online program can help you transform business strategy through the lens of work behavior in a number of industry settings.
Online graduate psychology programs offer flexibility, and JWU’s organizational psychology master’s is no exception. Students considering graduate school psychology programs may seek either a professional or scholarly focus. A special feature of this MS — Organizational Psychology degree is that students can tailor their coursework to culminate either in a capstone project or in a thesis.
Stand out with your expertise in the growing field of organizational psychology in this psychology graduate program.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s John Hazen White College of Arts & Sciences.
What You'll Learn
Use psychological theories and evidence based approaches to resolve issues involving individuals and groups in the workplace.
Employ professional communication skills to assess, explain and influence individual group and organizational behavior.
Institute ethical and socially responsible practices to positively influence organizational culture.
Evaluate and integrate relevant academic/professional literature to formulate action plans to improve group and team performance in alignment with organizational competency models.
Demonstrate a developed professional identity as a scholar practitioner that reflects a deep understanding of key issues facing the field of organizational psychology.
Take the next step in your organizational psychology career with an online master’s degree organizational psychology specialization from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Graduate Rates 2024-2025
$842
Per Credit Hour
$2,526
Per 3 Credit Hours
Scholarships Available for Eligible Students
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Learn how you may qualify for a scholarship, including our 20% Graduate Success Scholarship.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
ONLINE MASTER’S DEGREE ORGANIZATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY Sample Courses
Coursework for your master’s in organizational psychology online covers the essentials of organizational psychology as it applies to cultivating positive change in the performance and culture of workplaces, through channels such as team dynamics, talent development, and organizational culture. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Organizational Psychology Core Courses
Course Title
Leadership Theory and Practice
Team Dynamics
Organizational Theory and Change
Attitude and Motivation in the Workplace
Organizational Psychology Elective Courses
Course Title
Human Resource Management
Talent Development
Coaching and Consultation Skills
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your master's in organizational psychology online? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application and no GRE or GMAT requirements.
Please note that two prerequisite courses are required to be completed with a grade of C or above as a condition of acceptance:
PSYC1001 Introductory Psychology AND one of the following:
MATH2001 Statistics I | MATH2010 Biostatistics | RSCH2050 Workshop in Acquiring Social Research Skills | RSCH3830 Undergrad Research Experience
Students can take them as a non-matriculating student at JWU or at another institution.
If you already hold an undergraduate degree and you’re ready for more, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH AN Online MS in organizational psychology DEGREE?
Your JWU online master’s degree organizational psychology positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in organizational psychology. Explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in organizational psychology management. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.
“Earning my master’s degree while also working at JWU has been one of the most rewarding experiences of my life. School has always been a struggle for me. From kindergarten through my senior year in college, I was that kid in the back of the classroom trying to grasp the lesson but feeling lost. The way the content is delivered in the online program at JWU matches my learning style. Finally feeling successful in school is a confidence builder.”
– Deidre Tucci, '24