URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/graduate/nutrition/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Master’s
>
MS Nutrition
PROGRAM DETAILS
2 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Further your understanding of nutrition science and learn how to evaluate nutrition facts with this online master’s degree. This online Master of Science in Nutrition builds on your current expertise in the nutrition industry through an advanced exploration of concepts and practices in this field. This online master’s in nutrition program prepares you to design plans for wellness and health education.
Graduates of this fully online program will be poised to work in a wide variety of areas in the field, including in athletics, food service, community and wellness settings.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Health & Wellness.
What You'll Learn
Synthesize knowledge of nutrition and dietetics through research and application of advanced nutrition topics.
Develop a comprehensive and science-based expertise in the nutrition and dietetics fields to educate appropriate stakeholders.
Appraise relevant food and nutrition concepts in the wellness industry in order to help individuals and organizations promote disease prevention and health optimization.
Develop comprehensive evidence-based practice through assessing contemporary published literature and integrating nutrition and dietetics knowledge and skills.
Take the next step in your nutrition career with an online Master’s in Nutrition from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Graduate Rates 2024-2025
$842
Per Credit Hour
$2,526
Per 3 Credit Hours
Scholarships Available for Eligible Students
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Learn how you may qualify for a scholarship, including our 20% Graduate Success Scholarship.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
ONLINE MASTER’S IN NUTRITION Courses
Coursework for your MS nutrition online covers the essentials of nutrition science, including nutrition for athletic performance, macronutrients and micronutrients in human nutrition, and more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Nutrition Core Courses
Course Title
Macronutrients in Human Nutrition
Micronutrients in Human Nutrition
Nutrition for Health and Wellness
Nutrition for Athletic Performance
Nutritional Counseling and Education
Advanced Clinical Nutrition
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your MS in nutrition online? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application and no GRE or GMAT requirements.
Please note that students without a nutrition and dietetics background are welcome to join this program. Students without this background will be required to complete
Foundations of Nutrition I
and
Foundations of Nutrition II
as foundation courses.
If you already hold an undergraduate degree and you’re ready for more, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH AN Online MS in nutrition DEGREE?
Your JWU online MS nutrition degree positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in nutrition. Explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in nutrition planning and management, such as the following:
Community Health Worker
Fitness and Wellness Coordinators
Health Education Specialist
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in nutrition. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.