URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/graduate/operations-project-management/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Master’s
>
MS Operations & Project Management
PROGRAM DETAILS
2 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Ready to take the lead in project life cycles or an operational aspect of your organization? With our Master of Science in Operations & Project Management, you can gain the expertise you need to level up your management and leadership approach to project deliverables and operational performance.
This master’s in operations management program is designed to prepare you for oversight within a number of organizational settings—from HR to IT to finance and more. Students in this operations management program will study contemporary topics and skill development in lean techniques, total quality management, Lean Six Sigma, operations management, and project, program, and portfolio management through a lens of team dynamics.
Accelerate your career in operations and project management with an online graduate degree from Johnson & Wales University.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Business.
What You'll Learn
Create a comprehensive project plan to ensure desired project deliverables.
Design and evaluate organizational and project management environments using quantitative and qualitative tools/techniques.
Manage cross-functional environments to ensure the achievement of organizational and project goals.
Analyze business supply chains and make strategic recommendations for maximizing benefits to all stakeholders.
Take the next step in your organizational psychology career with an online master’s degree organizational psychology specialization from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Graduate Rates 2024-2025
$842
Per Credit Hour
$2,526
Per 3 Credit Hours
Scholarships Available for Eligible Students
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Learn how you may qualify for a scholarship, including our 20% Graduate Success Scholarship.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
Online MASTER’S IN OPERATIONS & Project MANAGEMENT Sample Courses
Coursework for your online master's degree in project management covers the essentials of oversight across the project lifecycle—from planning and budgets to implementation and project timeline management to post-project assessment and more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Operations Courses
Course Title
Lean Production and Quality Control
Designing & Managing Supply Chains
Global Strategic Sourcing
Global Logistics
Project Management Courses
Course Title
Project Management
Project Management Simulation I
Project Management Simulation II
Core Courses
Course Title
Operations Management
Effective Leadership
Team Dynamics
Research and Inquiry
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your MS in operations management? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application and no GRE or GMAT requirements.
If you already hold an undergraduate degree and you’re ready for more, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH AN Online MS in operations & Project management DEGREE?
Your JWU master’s in operations management online degree positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in operations management. Graduates of this program have found employment in companies such as:
Ensign-Bickford Aerospace & Defense Company
Tambourine Hotel Marketing
Fidelity Investments
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in operations management. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.