URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/graduate/operations-and-supply-chain-management/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Master’s
>
MBA Operations and Supply Chain Management
PROGRAM DETAILS
2 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Want to take your logistics career to a management level? Set yourself apart as a leader in the operations and supply chain management field with this graduate degree. Give your career a boost by earning a master’s in supply management online at Johnson & Wales University. In addition to insights and guidance for logistics strategy, operations management, and systems analysis, our Master of Business Administration in Operations & Supply Chain Management offers the leadership skills you need to make your mark in any industry or organization.
This MBA degree concentration in in operations and supply chain management provides an in-depth study of effective business practices and Lean principles and methodologies. Our program also delivers a targeted knowledge of logistics strategy, operations management, and systems analysis. Developed in partnership with successful industry experts, this master’s degree prepares students to be strategic and creative problem solvers in today’s evolving business landscape.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Business.
What You'll Learn
Gather, interpret and analyze research to inform decision-making at operational and strategic levels of an organization.
Use advanced communication skills and awareness of cultural differences in global and domestic business interactions.
Analyze problems from a diverse perspective, propose effective solutions and evaluate the impact of executive decisions.
Assess and evaluate business entities taking into account cross-functional environments as they affect ethical decision making in domestic and global organizations.
Analyze business supply chains and make strategic recommendations for maximizing benefits to all stakeholders.
Take the next step in your supply chain career with an online MBA in Operations & Supply Chain Management from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Graduate Rates 2024-2025
$842
Per Credit Hour
$2,526
Per 3 Credit Hours
Scholarships Available for Eligible Students
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Learn more about how you may qualify for a scholarship, including our 20% Graduate Success Scholarship.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
Online MBA IN OPERATIONS AND SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Sample Courses
Coursework for your MBA supply chain management online program covers all the essentials of supply chain management, from quality control and process improvement to procurement strategies. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Operations & Supply Chain Management Courses
Course Title
Designing & Managing Supply Chains
Global Strategic Sourcing
Global Logistics
Lean Production and Quality Control
MBA Core Courses
Course Title
Operations Management
Effective Leadership
Ethics, Corporate Social Responsibility and Law
Evidence-Based Research in Management
Foundations Courses
Course Title
Business Fundamentals
Quantitative Methods in Business
NOTE: With regards to Business Foundation courses, upon receipt of your transcripts, your prior coursework will be evaluated to determine the ability to waive out of these two courses. If you need to complete one or both of the foundation courses, you may take these courses as part of your program or test out of these courses via exam. Your dedicated admissions associate will discuss with you the option that will work best for you.
In addition, please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your MBA in operations management online? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions about the online MBA and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application and no GRE or GMAT requirements.
If you already hold an undergraduate degree and you’re ready for more, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH AN MBA in Operations and Supply Chain management DEGREE?
Your JWU MBA with a concentration in Operations & Supply Chain Management offers the executive-level operational competencies, project management strategies, and critical-thinking skills needed to pursue operations-oriented leadership roles in any relevant organization. Graduates of this program have found employment in companies such as:
Amazon
FGX International
Trane Technologies
Daikin Comfort Corporation
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in supply chain management. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.