URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/undergraduate/operations-and-supply-chain-management/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Bachelor’s
>
BSBA Operations & Supply Chain Management
PROGRAM DETAILS
4 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Ready to take on challenges of oversight in the supply chain life cycle or an operational aspect of your organization? With our online Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Operations & Supply Chain Management degree program. you can prepare to tackle key areas of supply chain and operations management, including purchasing, logistics, quality control, and more. This bachelor of science supply chain and operations management program develops the management, communications, and analytical aptitudes vital for careers within manufacturing and many other industry sectors, while covering business operations and continuity, logistics and supply chain management, process improvement, operations management, quality control, and other concepts that are important in today’s companies.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Business.
What You'll Learn
Apply the major concepts, skills and values of business administration.
Communicate effectively to diverse audiences, purposes and situations through a variety of professional methods within business administration.
Use decision-support tools to resolve contemporary business issues using ethical business practices.
Apply contemporary models, metrics, and approaches to create sustainable and continuously improving operational processes.
Evaluate a businesses’ supply chain and demonstrate the ability to make recommendations for maximizing its benefits to all stakeholders.
Take the next step in your supply chain management career with a bachelor of science in operations and supply chain management from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Undergraduate Rates 2024 - 2025
$495
Per Credit Hours
$1,485
Per 3 Credit Hours
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Are you eligible for a scholarship or a grant? Check out all your options and see if you qualify.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
Online BACHELOR OF SCIENCE OPERATIONS & SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT DEGREE Sample Courses
Coursework for your online operations and supply chain management degree blends managerial technology, process and quality management, logistics, enterprise risk management, and more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Operations & Supply Chain Management Major Courses
Course Title
Process and Quality Management
Logistics
Procurement
Contemporary Issues in Operations and Supply Chain Management Strategy
Business Foundations Courses
Course Title
Business Analytics
The Legal Environment of Business I
Operations and Supply Chain Management I
Marketing Foundations
Applied/Experiential Learning
Course
College of Business Internship
OR
Directed Experiential Education
OR
Study Abroad
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your online operations and supply chain management degree? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application.
If you’re ready for a degree that can position you for your next career move, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH A BS in operations & supply chain management DEGREE?
Your JWU online operations and supply chain management degree positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in supply chain management. Explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in supply chain and operations management, such as the following:
Operations Manager
Logistics Analyst
Supply Chain Manager
Loss Prevention Manager
Logistics Engineer
Data Warehousing Specialist
Purchasing Manager
To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.
“Online courses fit in with my moving lifestyle and give me the freedom to do class on my own time. At the beginning of my classes, I had a child, left the military, and moved across the country. For a busy mom, the online program was necessary and worked great with a small child.”
– Maria Schwartz, ’19 BSBA