URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/animal-science-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Bachelor of Science
Animal Science
Program Overview
Experiential Education
Labs
Courses
Faculty
In this section
Animals are essential to the way we live.
Whether it’s the livestock who feed our communities, therapy animals who help humans in need or family pets that bring joy to a household — we need animals and experienced people to care for them.
In the Animal Science program, you will apply anatomy, chemistry, nutrition, genetics and more to the study of animal management, breeding, behavior and welfare for a variety of species. You’ll gain hands-on experience with animals to hone your skills in handling, health maintenance, equipment usage and breeding. You can complete a general course of study or choose one of two specializations:
Pre-Veterinary Studies Specialization
This specialization offers a suite of courses that will qualify you to pursue a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine degree. You’ll complete major prerequisite course requirements for application to American Veterinary Medical Association-accredited veterinary schools within the United States as well as other animal and science-related graduate studies programs.
Equine Science Specialization
This specialization honors our legacy of excellence in equine education while focusing on the science that impacts how to select, care for and manage horses involved in all aspects of the equine industry.
Request Information
Loading...
JWU Visits Tufts University
Animal Science students taking the Domestic Animal Anatomy and Physiology Lab course recently visited Tufts University’s Cummings School of Veterinary Medicine to participate in laboratory rotations, including a Small & Large Animal Anatomy lab and Wildlife Anatomy lab.
Experiential Education
To study Animal Science effectively, you need to be able to work with real animals. Thanks to the partnerships we have developed with local farms, stables and research facilities, you’ll be able to handle and care for a variety of species in real settings as part of your coursework. This program is also designed to prepare you for higher-earning career outcomes in the field of animal science.
In this program, you’ll:
Work with real animals at our partner research facilities and farms.
Complete courses that are required to apply to accredited veterinarian schools (if you select the pre-veterinary specialization).
Learn more about organic farming and sustainable practices.
Have opportunities to travel on faculty-led study trips.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by JWU Equine & Animal Science (@jwuequineanimalstudies)
The Biology Lab
In the Biology Lab, Animal Science students learn the fundamentals of biology and examine different animals through dissection and microscopic study of organisms.
Our Industry Partners:
We have partnered with numerous farms and facilities so students can learn in real settings. Our industry partners include:
Roger Williams Park Zoo
Mystic Aquarium
Wrights Dairy Farm
Tufts University Cummings School of Veterinary Medicine
Brown University Research Facility
Launch Experience
Sample Courses
Domestic Animal Anatomy & Physiology
Principles of Animal Nutrition
Principles of Animal Behavior & Training
Animal Welfare, Health & Wellness
Animal Disease & Preventative Health
Animal-Assisted Interventions
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
View the full catalog course listing:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Animal Biotechnologist
Animal Nutritionist
Animal Product Sales Rep
Laboratory Animal Technician
Wildlife, Marine or Zoo Biologist
Animal Geneticist
Veterinarian
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Jackie Bowser
Professor + Dept. Chair
Jackie Bowser, D.V.M., Ph.D., DACVIM-LA, is board certified in large animal internal medicine and continues to practice veterinary medicine.
Dirk Fogg
Associate Professor
Dirk Fogg, MBA teaches theoretical and practical classes on a wide range of equine-related topics, including horse farm business planning, course design, equine physiology, and more.
Christopher Holland
Assistant Professor
Chris completed his undergraduate degree in pre-vet animal science with dual minors in marine biology and psychology at the University of Rhode...
Related Programs
Equine Studies
Explore a wide variety of equine-related topics with specializations in Equine Business Management and Equine-Assisted Services.
Biology
This is an interdisciplinary program that also explores chemistry, physics, molecular biology, ecology and biochemistry.
Health Science
In this program, you’ll explore different approaches to health and wellness and learn more about the healthcare industry.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Faculty Contact
Jackie Bowser, DVM, Ph.D., DACVIM-LA
Department Chair & Professor
508-252-5700
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.