URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/mba-one-year-program.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
MBA — One-Year Program
In this section
Apply Now
Request Information
Visit JWU
Majors & Degrees
Minors
Program Overview
Take your career to the next level with our world-class MBA. All of our MBA programs are developed and updated in collaboration with leading companies so you’ll gain the knowledge and skills employers are looking for.
Our professionally-focused curriculum includes active learning, which means you’ll learn by doing and turn theory into practice. Our faculty experts are leaders in the industry they teach. They know what it takes to achieve success in their respective fields and share their insights with you. They also bring real world projects and challenges into the classroom, giving you the opportunity to gain experience — what employers value the most.
We offer flexible options so you can earn your MBA faster, specialize in field, and sit for the CPA exam:
One-Year MBA: Earn your MBA in 12 months in our program of day courses.
CPA Exam: Earn your MBA and sit for all sections of the CPA exam.
Specialize your MBA: Stand out in the competitive job market with a concentration in:
Accounting
Hospitality
International Students
: Do you have a 3-year bachelor’s degree from another country? Take pre-MBA undergraduate courses to equate your education to a 4-year US bachelor’s degree, while you fulfill MBA program prerequisites.
MBA Sample Courses
Business Policy and Strategy
Effective Leadership
Corporate Financial Accounting
Global Economic Environments
Financial Reporting and Control
Strategic Marketing
For a full course listing, visit the JWU Catalog:
Providence
Online
Featured Faculty
John Krupa
Professor
Krupa has held positions in marketing, sales management, selling, counseling, consulting and education. His underlying philosophy is that people have unlimited potential.
Tim Howes
Associate Professor and Faculty Director of MBA Program
Howes has a 20-plus year track record of creating success at emerging consumer and business-oriented companies.
Did You Know?
According to data compiled by EMSI on the national workforce in occupations with an MBA:
In 2018, there were 108,352 annual job openings with an MBA requirement.
The median salary was $88,300.
There’s a projected 15.4% growth from 2018-2028 in this area.
Top posted job titles include business analysts, program managers, project managers, and sales managers/directors.
Faculty Contact
Tim Howes, MS
Associate Professor and Faculty Director
MBA Programs
401-598-1404
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.