URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/teaching-and-learning-med.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Master of Education
Teaching and Learning
In this section
Apply Now
Request Information
Visit JWU
Majors & Degrees
Minors
Program Overview
Transform your classroom into a learning laboratory to improve your teaching skills under the guidance of veteran teachers through our Teaching and Learning Master of Education (M.Ed.) degree program.
You’ll benefit from evening classes once a week that accommodate your work schedule. Aligned to National Board Standards, the program is designed to meet the growth and knowledge needs of the experienced teacher.
You’ll examine teaching and learning through 6 comprehensive course modules and the completion of a capstone project.
Our cohort model design allows you to move through the required sequence of courses as a member of a professional learning community, building upon your strengths as you share ideas with your peers and learn about each other’s practices.
The program emphasizes the integration of theory, research and application. Key features include integration and experiential learning.
You’ll deliver effective instructional strategies that engage, motivate and focus students, using multiple methods to monitor student learning and respond to their diverse developmental and social needs. You’ll develop habits of reflection, responsiveness and persistence to relentlessly focus on student access, learning needs, well-being and achievement.
Sample Courses
Exploration of Teaching and Learning
Culturally Responsive Teaching
Standards and Curriculum Development
Instructional Strategies and Resources
Assessment and Evaluation in Education
Supporting Learners in a Challenging World
Teaching: A Call to Action
Visit the JWU Catalog for a full course listing:
Teaching and Learning (M.Ed.)
Contacts
Cynthia Senenko, M.Ed.
Interim Director of Teacher Education Programs
401-598-4846
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.