URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/liberal-studies-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Bachelor of Science
Liberal Studies
Program Overview
Advanced Degree
Learn by Doing
Visiting Experts
Courses
Faculty
In this section
Become an Agile Thinker
The Liberal Studies B.S. degree at
JWU Providence
will equip you to examine issues from multiple perspectives and solve problems, all while exposing you to a well-rounded education in history, art, global studies and more. Critical and creative thinking leads to big ideas, and the effective communication skills you will develop can bring those ideas to life in any environment.
You will work closely with your faculty mentor to help shape and personalize your experience in this very flexible program. Choose which area to concentrate in: Arts & Culture, which encompasses humanities, art, history, literature, philosophy, religion and sociology, or Science & Society, which focuses on biology, chemistry, physics, psychology, political science and sociology.
Our Liberal Studies program’s free electives allow you to customize your degree to fit your specific interests, while you are encouraged to choose from among more than two dozen minors, ranging from global studies and criminal justice to professional communication and race and ethnic studies, to complement your studies. Our students participate in
JWU Study Abroad
programs in locations such as South Korea, Italy and Germany and/or complete internships with partners ranging from nonprofits to the Rhode Island State House and at venues ranging from the Providence Performing Arts Center to the Baltimore Symphony Office.
JWU Liberal Studies graduates pursue careers in a variety of fields, from communications to business to nonprofit to human resources. Where will your degree take you?
Request Information
Loading...
Continue Your Education Through Johnson & Wales
Students can earn both a B.S. and J.D. degree in just six years through JWU’s
3+3 Law Program
, offered at your choice of either Roger Williams University School of Law or the University of Massachusetts School of Law. Or get your master’s faster through JWU’s signature accelerated master’s program,
J2
, by starting on coursework toward an MBA or M.S. degree while still an undergraduate.
Experiential Education in a Flexible Program
There’s no one way to say what being a Liberal Studies major looks like at JWU, because the opportunities are nearly endless in this interdisciplinary program. Whether you choose to focus on arts and culture or science and society, your instructors will expand your worldview, whether that means bringing you to galleries and museums, screening impactful films or touring historic sites in the streets of Providence.
Why Study at JWU?
You will get to pursue coursework that interests you most, combining the depth and breadth of a liberal arts education with the
professionally focused training
for which JWU is known.
You can apply your free elective credit to options such as a Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad.
You will develop the skills to critically examine and interpret human complexities using the theories and methods of various disciplines in the humanities, social sciences and natural sciences.
You will learn to examine complex issues, analyze arguments, conduct credible research, solve problems, make ethical decisions and create original ideas/approaches.
Lecture Series Helps Students Practice Good Citizenship
To help students engage with the government and with politics, The Changing Constitution, a series of Fall 2024 lectures sponsored by JWU’s Humanities Department, reviews recent U. S. Supreme Court decisions related to the interpretation and application of the Constitution of the United States. “As there is no way to override the Supreme Court on constitutional matters apart from the nearly impossible expedient of amending the Constitution, decisions such as these impact the lives of every person in the country,” notes Professor Kenneth Schneyer. “Understanding them is crucial.”
Rachel’s Experience in JWU Liberal Studies
“I have a strong interest in history, philosophy and political science, and when looking to change my major I wanted to find something I wanted to do that I’d enjoy and that was broad. Liberal Studies was the best fit to get what I want with the flexibility of the major. The liberal studies program helped provide me the skills and base knowledge to getting an internship with the Foundation of Post Conflict Development and spending the summer of my junior year going to meetings at the United Nations in NYC getting immeasurable and amazing experience."
-
Rachel Meli ‘25
Sample Courses
A Multicultural History of America
The Atomic Age
History of Digital Art
Things That Go Bump In the Night: An Interdisciplinary Approach to the Supernatural
The Problem with Evil
Food in World History
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
Explore the full JWU Catalog course listing:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Media Relations Specialist
Speech Writer
Lawyer
Nonprofit Organizational Director
Policy Analyst
Lobbyist
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Prof. Kenneth Schneyer .
Professor
Between his experience as an attorney, professor of law, actor/director and a Nebula-nominated science fiction and fantasy author, Schneyer brings a breadth of interests to his interdisciplinary courses at JWU.
Johanna Church
Professor
Church served as a technical writer for a software company and a copywriter for an ad agency before her long career in teaching at the collegiate level. She helps students apply critical thinking skills through literature and pop culture studies.
Frank Toti
Lecturer
With his experience in government, nonprofits and local theatre as well as four degrees in history and theatre, Toti brings a wealth of knowledge and passion to JWU courses in film studies, history and art history.
Related Programs
Media & Communication
Whether your passion is film, music, television, news, photography, or any aspect of the media landscape, you’ll develop your skills under the tutelage of an experienced group of faculty.
Psychology
Upon completing this program, you will be prepared to immediately enter the workforce in fields such as human resources, public relations, business and the helping professions.
Criminal Justice
You’ll explore the interdisciplinary nature of the criminal justice field with courses in political science, psychology and sociology.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Faculty Contact
Maureen Farrell, PhD
401-598-1772
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.