URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/mba-organizational-leadership.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Master of Business Administration
Organizational Leadership Concentration
In this section
Apply Now
Request Information
Visit JWU
Majors & Degrees
Minors
Program Overview
You’ve managed the system. Now change it.
Break down silos. Question existing structures. Change the mission from the inside out. Through JWU’s MBA with an Organizational Leadership concentration, you’ll obtain the skills to become an emotionally intelligent (EQ) leader adept at uniting employees around a shared sense of purpose.
Gain a thorough understanding of how to integrate performance-enhancing theory and models into real-world business situations. You will also explore the latest research related to employee wellness, organizational health, and positive leadership practices.
Developed in collaboration with leading companies, our professionally-focused curriculum includes self-assessments and opportunities to apply concepts and tools to practical business situations. Through action learning, you can change, seek feedback, observe and evaluate outcomes, and continually improve practices and processes. Applied academic assignments allow you to gain leadership experiences that develop individuals, teams, and organizations — what employers value the most.
You’ll receive a strong foundation in business management with an emphasis on organizational change, effectiveness, and leadership styles that can help take your career — and your team — to the next level.
Program Delivery
Providence students take their MBA foundation, core and capstone courses on campus and their MBA Organizational Leadership concentration courses online only.
“Finding universal values through genuine, caring relationships, communication, and personal meaning improves climate and internal motivation and creates upward spirals of vision and goal attainment.”
JOHN KRUPA
Sample Courses
Contemporary Leadership Issues & Strategies
Effective Leadership
Project Management
Operations Management
Business Policy & Strategy
Coaching & Consultation Skills
For a full course listing, visit the JWU Catalog:
Providence
JWU MBA Alumni Honored at
PBN
‘40 Under 40’
Three JWU alumni have been honored by the
Providence Business News
(PBN) at their 17th annual “40 Under Forty” program, which honors 40 Rhode Islanders under the age of 40 who have achieved career success and continue to stay involved in their communities.
Claudia Scotti '08 is being honored by PBN for her work in supply chain management, most recently in her position with the biopharmaceutical company Amgen, where she is responsible for purchasing the raw materials the company needs to produce medicine.
Scotti started her JWU journey in 2006 as an international student from France, where she grew up. “It was fate,” Scotti says of the path that landed her at the Harborside Campus, where she earned her MBA in Global Business Leadership (now called Organizational Leadership).
“It’s hard for foreign students to get their feet on the ground here, but that’s what Johnson & Wales did for me — it got me anchored in the culture, it got me accustomed with companies,” she explains. “[My career] wouldn’t have ignited without JWU; that’s where it all started for me.”
Featured Faculty
John Krupa
Professor
Professor Krupa has held positions in marketing, sales management, selling, counseling, consulting and education. His underlying philosophy is that people have unlimited potential.
Tim Howes
Associate Professor and Faculty Director of MBA Program
Howes has a 20-plus year track record of creating success at emerging consumer and business-oriented companies.
Top Employers of MBA Organizational Leadership Alumni
Amica Mutual Insurance Company
CVS Health Corporation
Bank of America Corporation
Fidelity Investments
Citizens Financial Group, Inc.
Schneider Electric Buildings, LLC
Top Occupations of MBA Organizational Leadership Alumni
Chief Executives
Postsecondary Teachers
General & Operations Managers
Marketing Managers
Human Resources Managers
Sales Managers
Did You Know?
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, management-related careers are trending upward, with an average 5% projected growth through 2029. That’s faster than average.
$97,872: Estimated salary of MBA Organizational Leadership alumni
78% of alumni report that they are working in a field related to their program of study.
Faculty Contact
Tim Howes, MS
Associate Professor and Faculty Director
MBA Programs
401-598-1404
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.