URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/culinary-arts-as.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Associate in Science
Culinary Arts
Program Overview
Learn by Doing
Sample Courses
Related Programs
In this section
Make Culinary Arts Your Career
When culinary classes are in session at JWU’s Providence Campus, the glass-fronted Cuisinart Center for Culinary Excellence (CCCE) hums with adrenaline, creativity, and the intense energy of culinary students focused on becoming the best they can be. Are you ready to join them?
JWU’s Culinary Arts Associate in Science (A.S.) degree program builds a professional foundation of culinary craft skills, comprehensive food production and service experience, and leadership and teamwork skills.
Our hands-on curriculum will expand your understanding of classical and contemporary cuisines and techniques. Learn to develop recipes, implement cost controls, and earn a Conference for Food Protection-approved Food Safety Manager Certification. Refine your skills through competitions and skills classes.
The program culminates in an internship or study abroad option, allowing you to apply your skills professionally, build your network, and gain career-ready confidence.
Admissions is contingent upon meeting the technical standards
technical standards
for this program. Individual states may require specific licensing or professional certification in addition to earning a degree in order to practice in the field. Visit the Catalog’s
Licensure & Professional Certification Disclosures
for more information.
Request Information
Loading...
Get Career-Ready
A degree in culinary arts can lead to amazing opportunities, from running a restaurant to cooking nutritious meals for athletes. Where will it take you?
Why Study Culinary Arts?
Learn by Doing
Build Kitchen-Tested Skills
JWU’s program is designed to progressively develop a range of complementary skills, from culinary craft to teamwork, critical thinking and leadership.
Culinary skills are sharpened through a sequence of kitchen labs, while a dining and beverage service laboratory provides a comprehensive food production and service experience.
As you advance, ways to put your learning into action include:
Honing your professional skills in a fast-paced hotel, restaurant, country club, resort, casino or retail internship.
Gaining industry experience through study abroad options.
Pitching your food entrepreneurship ideas at SharkFest or the Future Food All-Stars competition.
Labs & Spaces
Located on our Harborside Campus, the LEED-certified Cuisinart Center for Culinary Excellence (CCCE) comprises 3 floors of hot and cold kitchens, bakeshops and pastry shops, dining rooms where students practice their front- and back-of-house skills, meatcutting labs, receiving and storerooms, and a wine and beverage service laboratory.
Adjacent to the CCCE is the Harborside Academic Center (HAC), which houses the HAC Amphitheater, the chocolate and sugar lab, and the baking technology lab, and academic classrooms.
A short walk away is the Friedman Center, which includes the Food Innovation Design Lab (FIDL) and the Culinary Arts Museum, which houses an extensive collection of culinary-related artifacts, books, menus and other ephemera.
Take a Virtual Harborside Tour
Sample Courses
Global à la Carte
Introduction to Culinary Skills & Techniques
Introduction to Menu Planning & Cost Controls
Contemporary Restaurant Operations & Management
Baking and Pastry Concepts for Culinary Operations
CFIT Intermediate Internship
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits. For a full course listing, visit the JWU Catalog:
Culinary Arts (AS)
Career Possibilities
Brewmaster
Food Service Manager
Resort/Club Management
Product Development
Chef Executive
Chef Sommelier
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
RELATED BACHELOR’S DEGREE PROGRAMS
Culinary Science & Product Development
This bachelor’s degree program prepares students for careers as research chefs and food technologists in product development labs, test kitchens and culinary centers.
Culinary Nutrition
This bachelor’s degree program prepares students for careers in restaurants, healthcare and school food service management and athlete dining (both collegiate and professional settings).
Food & Beverage Entrepreneurship
This bachelor’s degree program prepares students for careers as innovators creating and managing food- and/or beverage-related small businesses and start-ups.
After completing your Culinary Arts associate degree, continue your education by enrolling in one of the following JWU bachelor’s degree programs:
Business Studies
Culinary Arts
Culinary Nutrition
Food & Beverage Entrepreneurship
Culinary Science & Product Development
Food & Beverage Industry Management
Sustainable Food Systems
Faculty Contact
Michael D. Makuch, M.A.T., CEC
401-598-2846
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.