URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/addiction-counseling-ms.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Master of Science
Addiction Counseling
In this section
Apply Now
Request Information
Visit JWU
Majors & Degrees
Minors
Program Overview
Help prevent substance abuse, counsel people with addictive disorders, and provide other services to people suffering from addiction when you graduate with an Addiction Counseling master’s degree program from JWU.
This 18-month full-time program* has two cohort starts each year (fall or spring). Classes meets in the late afternoons and evenings. This flexible schedule allows opportunities for students to work at their field placements during the day and on weekends. Classes are offered in multiple modalities, including face to face, hybrid and remote. The majority of courses are taught by full-time faculty who represent diverse areas of expertise including clinical, addictions, substance abuse, trauma and rehabilitation counseling.
Learn clinical skills by turning theoretical foundations into positive, ethical client interaction and intervention. The counseling training laboratory and clinical field experience sites provide students with hands-on training by licensed professionals.
The 60-credit program includes 12 core courses, 4 electives, a practicum and an internship. This fieldwork puts professional knowledge into practice, starting with a 100-hour practicum followed by an internship under the supervision of clinical professionals.
*A part-time option is available. Part-time students follow a study plan of two courses per semester, completing the program in 3 years.
Individual states may require specific licensing or professional certification in addition to earning a degree in order to practice in the field. Review
Licensure & Professional Certification Disclosures
for more information.
Overcoming the power of addiction is no easy achievement. More than any other areas, the addiction counseling program focuses on helping people change.
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR JESSICA PAULHUS, PHD, LMHC, LCDP, CCS, CAGS
Sample Addiction Counseling Courses
Advanced Career Counseling
Counseling Practicum
Testing & Assessment in Counseling
Counseling the Chemically Dependent & Their Families
Multicultural Counseling: Theories & Techniques
Professional Orientation & Ethical Practice
Research & Theories in Addictions Counseling
For a full course listing, visit the JWU Catalog:
Providence
Core Counseling Faculty
Jessica Paulhus
Assistant Professor
As a dual licensed clinician who specializes in both mental health and substance use, Paulhus has experience working in a variety of settings, including home care, outpatient counseling, and crisis work.
Yesim Giresunlu
Assistant Professor
Assistant Professor Giresunlu’s research interests include counselor and supervisor development and practices in integrated behavioral health settings.
Evan Smarinsky
Associate Professor
Much of Assistant Professor Smarinsky’s clinical work has focused on trauma treatment and prevention in children and adolescents.
How Counseling Can Diminish Sports Performance Anxiety
Associate professors Jessica Paulhus and Yesim Giresunlu, core faculty in JWU Providence’s Counselor Education department, are using their backgrounds in counseling, athletics and martial arts to support student-athletes’ mental health and diminish performance anxiety. It’s part of a collaborative effort with JWU’s Athletics department and other individuals across the university.
During the 2023-24 academic year, the professors co-facilitated two training sessions for student-athletes where they outlined their findings and offered practical strategies for improving game performance.
Therapy that Leverages Nature’s Healing Properties
A member of JWU Providence’s Clinical Health Counseling program’s first graduating cohort, Danielle Gagnon ’16 M.S. uses nature as a synergistic component of her counseling strategy. Throughout her career, she has practiced experiential therapeutic modalities and integrating the healing nature of the outdoors.
Gagnon currently practices in Utah, where she became a licensed Clinical Mental Health Counselor. In the last few years, she has primarily worked with adolescents who have struggled with anxiety, depression, trauma, substance use and emotional regulation.
Gagnon has trained and is certified in many clinical modalities, including Brain Spotting, Trauma-Focused CBT and SMART Recovery; she is also Safe Zone-certified for working with the LGBTQ+ population. She believes these forms of therapy create a space to allow students to access negative memories or feelings, and then release them, allowing the brain and body to heal.
She has recently joined Evoke Therapy in Utah as a wilderness therapist. Wilderness therapy is an alternative therapy that takes place outdoors; it has been shown to help patients overcome addiction, psychological disorders, stress, and past trauma by exposing them to challenging situations in nature.
When not at work, Gagnon focuses on travel and outdoor adventures, including road trips, hiking, kayaking, and other forms of wilderness exploration.
JWU M.S. Counseling Graduate Opens Connecticut Practice
Morgan Ajello '14, M.S., LPC, NCC, a graduate of the program’s first cohort, is a licensed professional counselor who has opened Omata LLC, a private practice based in Mystic, Connecticut.
Post-graduation counselors must accumulate 2500 to 3500 clinical hours (depending on the state), 100 weekly clinical supervision hours, and pass the NCMHCE exam before they can apply for state licensure, a process that takes a minimum of 2 years.
Faculty Contact
Cheryl Almeida
, Ph.D.
Counselor Education Department Chair
401-598-2247
Email
Toggle
Program Data, Admissions Criteria & Annual Report
Program Data
JWU’s M.S. in Clinical Mental Health and Addiction Counseling programs are housed in the College of Arts & Sciences’ Counselor Education department.
Admissions Criteria
JWU Catalog: Graduate Admissions Requirements
Annual Report
2022-23 Annual Report: M.S. in Counseling
(PDF)
Vital Statistics
2022-23 Vital Statistics: M.S. in Counseling
(PDF)
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.