URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/mba-hospitality.html

Choose a Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Online
Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Providence Programs
/
MBA — Hospitality
MBA — Hospitality Concentration
In this section
Program Overview
Are you a hospitality professional looking to advance into higher-level executive positions? Then propel your career through our MBA with a Hospitality concentration from Johnson & Wales University, one of the largest educators of hospitality professionals in North America.
Our world-class MBA program — among the largest in New England — is designed to accommodate the schedules of working professionals.
Developed and updated in collaboration with leading companies, our professionally focused curriculum includes real-world projects and challenges so you can gain experience — what employers value the most.
Our faculty experts are industry leaders who know what it takes to achieve success in their respective fields. They eagerly share their insights with you, covering all facets of the interdependent and complex hospitality industry: lodging, tourism, food and beverage, and event management.
You’ll gain the advanced knowledge and skills needed to excel in such key areas as operations management, strategic marketing, technology, entrepreneurship, leadership and more, all specific to the ever-expanding global hospitality industry.
As part of your coursework, you’ll critically analyze challenges in the business environment, create strategies to enhance revenue, incorporate industry-leading technology, address current trends and potential future opportunities in hospitality, and determine appropriate growth strategies and communication channels to create a sustainable competitive advantage.
The ability to gain experience around the country or the world, the ability to move seamlessly between companies, and the ability to grow rapidly in your career are all benefits of a hospitality degree.
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR REX WARREN, PH.D.
Sample Courses
Business Policy & Strategy
Information Technology in Hospitality & Tourism
Experience, Adventure & Education Tourism
Franchising & Licensing
Event Leadership & Planning
Strategic Marketing
For a full course listing, visit the JWU Catalog:
Providence
Online
Featured MBA Hospitality Faculty
Jane Boyland
Associate Professor & Department Chair, The International Hotel School
Associate Professor Boyland also serves as the dept. chair of the International Hotel School at JWU’s Providence Campus.
Mansour Moussavi
Professor
Professor Mansour Moussavi teaches various courses in hospitality management, finance and economics.
Rex Warren
Assistant Professor
Prior to joining JWU in 2009, Rex Warren enjoyed a 29-year career in the hospitality industry, including senior leadership roles at Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide.
Did You Know?
In the U.S., the travel and tourism industry is the first, second or third largest employer in 30 of the 50 states.*
The World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) forecasts that, by 2030, international tourist arrivals will reach 1.8 billion — a growth rate of 43 million per year.
*Source: American Hotel & Lodging Institute
Faculty Contact
Timothy Howes, M.S.
401-598-1404
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.