URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/mba-human-resource-management.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Master of Business Administration
Human Resource Management Concentration
In this section
Apply Now
Request Information
Visit JWU
Majors & Degrees
Minors
Program Overview
Human resource managers with business and financial credentials are in high demand, especially in the areas of strategic planning, compensation and benefits. These senior HR executives develop, implement and administer increasingly sophisticated rewards and benefits policies — including salaries, bonuses, pensions, life insurance and medical insurance packages. In fact, the Bureau of Labor Statistics projects 6% employment growth in this field from 2019 to 2029.
Intelligent.com Ranks JWU in the Top 50 Online HR MBAs
Take the fast track to becoming an HR executive through an MBA with a concentration in Human Resource Management. Our world-class MBA program is designed to accommodate the schedules of working professionals.
Developed and updated in collaboration with leading companies, our professionally focused curriculum includes real-world projects and challenges so you can gain experience — what employers value the most.
Our faculty experts are leaders in the industry they teach. They know what it takes to achieve success in their respective fields and share their insights with you.
In our program, you’ll learn effective approaches for keeping an organization of any size competitive by strategizing and planning for a company’s personnel needs. You’ll then create effective policies and programs to attract and retain the best talent.
This concentration provides business students a context for the challenges developing from our rapidly-transforming work environments and evolving workforce. It offers opportunities to seek solutions by complementing business practices with HR management strategies.
PROFESSOR ROGER ACHILLE
Sample MBA in HR Management Courses
Human Resource Management
Labor and Employee Relations
Strategic Recruiting, Retention & Succession
Strategic Compensation & Benefits
Organizational Training & Development
For a full course listing, visit the JWU Catalog:
Providence
Online
Featured Faculty
John Krupa
Professor
Professor Krupa has held positions in marketing, sales management, selling, counseling, consulting and education. His underlying philosophy is that people have unlimited potential.
Tim Howes
Associate Professor and Faculty Director of MBA Program
Howes has a 20-plus year track record of creating success at emerging consumer and business-oriented companies.
Top Skills of MBA in HR Management Alumni
Application Tracking Systems
Onboarding
Customer Relationship Management
Strategic Planning
Employee Relations
Talent Acquisition
Top Occupations of MBA in HR Management Alumni
Compensation & Benefits Managers
Human Resources Specialists
General & Operations Managers
Sales Managers
Human Resources Managers
Training & Development Specialists
Did You Know?
76% of MBA in HR Management alumni report that they are working in a field related to their program of study.
Faculty Contact
Tim Howes, MS
Associate Professor and Faculty Director
MBA Programs
401-598-1404
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.