URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/cybersecurity-ms.html

Choose a Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Online
Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Providence Programs
/
Cybersecurity M.S.
Master of Science
Cybersecurity
In this section
Apply Now
Request Information
Visit JWU
Majors & Degrees
Minors
Program Overview
Secure computer systems and protect the information that is created, stored and transmitted with JWU Providence’s Master of Science (M.S.) in Cybersecurity, a program that is designed to accommodate the schedules of working professionals.
With data breaches increasing in severity and complexity, threatening retailers, banks, gaming networks, consumers, government and more, information security has become a critical function in the technology sector. Become part of one of the most exciting and fastest growing professions in the US: The Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts job growth in the information security analysis sector of roughly 33% between 2020 and 2030 — much higher than the average growth of other occupations.
You’ll integrate information security solutions through different security scenarios to stay ahead of potential hackers. You’ll also research, develop and test system security contingency plans and disaster recovery procedures to ensure information systems reliability and prevent unauthorized access.
After taking core classes, you’ll select a technical or business track based on your career goals. You’ll also have the opportunity to prepare for various security certifications, including the CISSP (Certified Information Systems Security Professional), CISA (Certified Information Security Auditor) and SSCP (Systems Security Certified Practitioner) to set yourself apart from the competition.
Sample Courses
Advanced Network Intrusion Detection & Analysis
Digital/Computer Forensics and Investigation
Hacking Countermeasures & Techniques
Software Security Testing
Network Security & Cryptography
Securing Virtualized & Cloud Infrastructures
Information Security & Assurance Capstone Research Project
View the full JWU Catalog course listing:
Cybersecurity M.S.
For an explanation of the career outcomes rate and other information, visit
JWU Student Consumer Information
.
Faculty Contact
Anthony Chavis
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.