URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/business-studies-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Bachelor of Science
Business Studies
Program Overview
Learn by Doing
Entrepreneurship Center
Courses
In this section
Earn Your Bachelor’s Degree in Two Years
If you have an associate degree or equivalent credits in any field, you can earn a bachelor’s degree in just two years through our accelerated Business Studies program!
In this highly flexible program, you’ll gain a broad understanding of current business practices and the effective organization of a company’s financial and human resources to prepare for long-term growth. Core business classes and management studies will help prepare you to be successful in many areas of an organization.
You can also tailor your degree by focusing on an area that best suits your unique career goals, including operations management, human resources, international business, marketing and entrepreneurship.
You’ll learn from faculty with industry experience who combine the latest theory with real-world situations. They’ll show you how to use effective management techniques and bring your studies to life with projects and case studies from real companies.
Request Information
Loading...
Take the Next Step in Your Education
Many students aren’t sure what to do next after earning their associate degree. That’s what makes this program special — you can continue your education and prepare for a wide variety of career paths. Whether you’re already at JWU or transferring here from another institution, you can smoothly transition into this program with your previously earned credits and complete a bachelor’s degree that compliments your associate degree.
In this program, you can:
Apply previously earned credits and/or an associate degree to earn your bachelor’s in as little as two years.
Learn from experienced faculty who have spent years in the industry as corporate consultants, managers, accountants and more.
Participate in
Directed Experiential Education (DEE)
courses, which allow students to spend a semester working on a real project for a company or organization.
Pitch your own business ideas at JWU Sharkfest, our annual business competition that awards cash prizes for you to invest in your endeavor.
The Larry Friedman Center for Entrepreneurship
This entrepreneurship center, also known as “The Launch Pad,” offers students a collaborative space to plan and execute their business ideas, access resources and connect with mentors.
Sample Courses
Business Analytics
Finance
Macroeconomics
Marketing Foundations
Organizational Behavior
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
For a full course listing, visit the JWU Catalog:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Entrepreneur
Operations Manager
Business Analyst
General Manager
Securities Trader
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Bernard Kenney
Assistant Professor
Kenney teaches various courses in Management, Marketing and Advertising at the introductory through senior level.
Nancy Tourani
Associate Professor
Tourani is a researcher and teacher with expertise in strategy, strategic alliances and storytelling analysis.
James Woods
Assistant Professor and Department Chair, Management & Marketing; Charlotte College Chair
Woods encourages his students to network with local entrepreneurs and leaders.
Related Programs
Business Administration
If you know you want a career in the world of business but aren’t quite sure what that career is, you’ll have the opportunity to see what you enjoy most from a wide array of foundational and free elective courses.
Entrepreneurship
In this 4-year entrepreneurship degree program, you’ll benefit from a diverse entrepreneurial curriculum with business and general education coursework while also completing your business administration degree.
Finance
JWU’s Finance program gives you an advantage. Its distinct, student-centered teaching and hands-on experiential approach to learning help make you job-ready.
Faculty Contact
James Woods, Ph.D.
Assistant Professor and Department Chair
Department of Management and Marketing
980-598-3123
Email
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.