URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/physician-assistant-studies-mspas.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
MSPAS
Physician Assistant Studies
In this section
PA Studies Home
Mission and Goals
Why JWU
Visit & Info Sessions
Dean’s Letter
How to Apply
Curriculum
Program Cost
Faculty & Staff
Matriculated Student/Attrition Data
Articulation Agreements
Technical Standards
Program Accreditation
PA Certification Exam
Become a Preceptor
Catalog & Handbooks
FAQs
Program Overview
Effective clinicians engage in active listening and empathy; they understand that patients are more than medical records, lab results, body systems and drug interactions. Become a healthcare professional who treats the whole patient — mind, body and spirit — through JWU’s Master of Science in Physician Assistant Studies (MSPAS) degree program.
You’ll learn to be a collaborative practitioner with the respect, empathy and trust inherent to humanistic healthcare. Our curriculum will prepare you to meet the complex needs of patients — and to develop the critical thinking skills to integrate seamlessly into a patient-centered medical team.
Hone your knowledge of clinical medicine, medical science and therapeutics through evidence-based practice at our award-winning, 18,000-square-foot Center for Physician Assistant Studies.
One of only a few facilities in the country entirely dedicated to the education of physician assistants, the center provides our students with 24-hour access to cadaver-based anatomy labs with e-study guides at each dissection station and a clinical skills practice center with simulated exam rooms equipped with the latest electronic medical record technology.
The first 12 months of the program are devoted to preclinical studies, and the remaining 12 months to clinical experiences in primary care and medical and surgical specialties. Enrollment is limited to 36 students each year and classes begin each June.
With demand for PAs having increased by more than 300 percent from 2011 to 2014, it’s no wonder that Forbes, U.S. News & World Report and CNN rate PAs as a top profession.
Admissions is contingent upon you meeting the technical standards for this program. Learn more by visiting the JWU Catalog’s
technical standards
.
Individual states may require specific licensing or professional certification in addition to earning a degree in order to practice in the field. Learn more via the Catalog’s
Licensure & Professional Certification Disclosures
.
Sample Courses
Patient Care I, II
Professional and Health Policy Issues
Foundation of Medicine
Clinical Cardiology
Emergency Medicine
Surgical Clinical Course
View the full course listing in the JWU Catalog:
Physician Assistant Studies
Tour the Center for Physician Assistant Studies
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.