URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/business-explorations.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Undeclared: Business Explorations
In this section
Apply Now
Request Information
Visit JWU
Majors & Degrees
Minors
Program Overview
Undecided? Sometimes, you know your passion but are still determining which academic major will provide the best opportunities to fulfill it. Our Undeclared: Business Explorations option has you covered.
We’ll help you craft your pathway and build a tailored academic and work experience roadmap to help you achieve your professional goals.
You will start with a core business and general studies program that will develop your critical thinking, analytical, and communication skills. Simultaneously, you will gain insight into the industry major that best fits your interests. Work with dedicated faculty mentors and academic and career advisors to hone your interests.
At the end of your first year, choose a major from our business and hospitality programs.
Sample Undeclared: Business Explorations Courses
Introduction to Business and Management
Organizational Behavior
Marketing Foundations
Spreadsheet Design for Business Solutions
Communication Skills
First-Year Seminar
Explore the full JWU Catalog course listing:
Providence
Anthony Fruzzetti
Professor and Program Lead, Marketing
Fruzzetti’s two primary areas of specialization are marketing research and consumer behavior. Both focus on why people do the things they do.
Tim Howes
Associate Professor and Faculty Director of MBA Program
As an educator with a 20+ year track record of creating success at emerging companies, Associate Professor Howes has a passion for improving organizations and their people.
Faculty Contact
James Woods, Ph.D.
Assistant Professor and Department Chair
Department of Management and Marketing
980-598-3123
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.