URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/global-tourism-and-sustainable-economic-development-ms.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Providence Programs
/
Global Tourism and Sustainable Economic Development (MS)
Master of Science
Global Tourism and Sustainable Economic Development
In this section
Apply Now
Request Information
Visit JWU
Majors & Degrees
Minors
Program Overview
Tourism is one of the most powerful economic, socio-cultural and environmental forces shaping our world, impacting indigenous people and their communities, visitors, industry and government. Through proper long-term planning, tourism can preserve sites for future generations and act as a tool for positive change. Help direct that positive change by pursuing a Global Tourism and Sustainable Economic Development master’s degree.
Strategize and develop viable programs for sustainable tourism and economic development projects. Through coursework and real-world projects, you’ll gain comprehensive knowledge of the newest tourism trends: shared service providers such as Airbnb and Lyft, the experience economy orchestrating memorable events as products, and local and global opportunities for development.
When you graduate, you’ll be prepared to work in a variety of jobs in the industry, including tourism and economic development consultant, government specialist and tourism product developer. This program will equip you to become a global citizen and future leader in the growing sustainable tourism field.
This master’s degree program uses tourism as a catalyst for positive change in the world by focusing on sustainable economic growth, increased business opportunities and employment,  cultural preservation, and environmental conservation in all regions around the world.
ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR TIFFANY RHODES
Sample Courses
Tourism Economics
Planning for Ethical & Sustainable Tourism Development
Financial Concepts in Sustainable Tourism Development
Foundation of Consulting for the Tourism Industry
Global Tourism Marketing & Branding
Tourism Principles & Foundations
For a full course listing, visit the JWU Catalog:
Providence
Featured Faculty
Tiffany Rhodes
Associate Professor
Rhodes’ expertise in the travel/tourism industry has led her to 35+ different countries around the world as a leader, manager and marketer of adventure travel, voluntourism, and ecotourism expeditions.
Did You Know?
The World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) forecasts that, by 2030, international tourist arrivals will reach 1.8 billion — a growth rate of 43 million per year.
Shaping the Future of Tourism
COVID-19 has brought the tourism industry to an abrupt halt after years of exponential growth. Assistant Professor Tiffany Rhodes looks at some silver linings and offers up some ways that hospitality stakeholders can help support a bright future for the industry:
SUPPORT TOURISM’S SUSTAINABLE FUTURE
Faculty Contact
Tiffany Rhodes
401-598-5272
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.