URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/baking-and-pastry-arts-as.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Associate in Science
Baking & Pastry Arts
Program Overview
Sample Courses
Related Programs
Contact
In this section
Apply Now
Request Information
Visit JWU
Majors & Degrees
Minors
Become a Baking & Pastry Professional
Perfecting cakes, breads, desserts, and pastries takes focus, creativity, and a solid understanding of how ingredients combine to produce a finished product. JWU Providence’s two-year Baking & Pastry Arts associate degree program will teach you the technical skills, scientific precision and craft to become a baking professional.
JWU’s International Baking & Pastry Institute® sets the global standard. In addition to mastering cakes, artisan bread, confections and plated desserts, you’ll learn how to develop menus, implement cost controls, and pass a nationally-recognized food safety certification.
Sharpen your critical thinking, communication, and leadership skills through professional studies courses. Complete an internship or study abroad option to apply your skills in a professional setting, build your network, and gain career-ready confidence.
You’ll receive a pastry kit with essential tools, a professional chef uniform, and JWU-produced digital textbooks covering fundamentals and formulas.
Admissions is contingent upon meeting the
technical standards
for this program. Individual states may require specific licensing or professional certification in addition to earning a degree in order to practice in the field. For more information, visit the Catalog’s
Licensure & Professional Certification Disclosures
.
Request Information
Loading...
Explore Career Paths
Studying baking and pastry arts allows you to tap into your artistic, creative, and scientific side. There are so many ways to set yourself apart, whether you’re interested in becoming a cake decorator, a bakery owner, a food stylist or so many other options.
Discover Baking Careers
Sample Courses
Principles of Cake Production and Design
Foundations of Baking and Pastry
Chocolate, Confections & Mignardise
Artisan Bread & Viennoiserie I & II
Plated Desserts
Advanced Pastry Applications
Artisan Cafe
FIT Intermediate Internship
View the full JWU Catalog course listing:
Baking & Pastry Arts (AS)
Career Possibilities
Bread Baker
Bakery Manager
Chocolatier
Cake Decorator
Pastry Cook
Bakery Owner
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Baking Labs & Classrooms
Put your learning into action in our baking & pastry labs, located in the Cuisinart Center for Culinary Excellence (CCCE) and the Harborside Academic Center (HAC).
Through hands-on learning, you will apply skills, food science and theories that form your foundation for all program levels. Gain facility with crafting cakes, decorative elements, artisan breads, laminated doughs, chocolates and sugar confections.
The Bay Café
The second-floor CCCE dining room offers real-time practice in plating desserts and working on front-of-the-house skills.
Launch 360° Baking & Pastry Lab Tour
Explore Baking & Pastry Labs
RELATED BACHELOR’S DEGREE PROGRAMS
Baking & Pastry Arts
Master all facets of the dynamic baking and pastry arts industry in JWU’s Baking & Pastry Arts bachelor’s degree program. Learn in advanced lab settings from our world-renowned faculty as you broaden your expertise in artisanal bread, confectionery, viennoiserie, cakes and plated desserts.
Culinary Science & Product Development
The Culinary Science & Product Development bachelor’s degree program integrates food science with culinary arts, preparing students for careers as research chefs and food technologists in product development labs, test kitchens and culinary centers.
Food & Beverage Entrepreneurship
The Food & Beverage Entrepreneurship bachelor’s degree program prepares students for careers creating and managing food and/or beverage-related small businesses and start-ups or for work within existing organizations as an advocate of innovation.
After completing your associate degree, continue your education by enrolling in one of the following JWU bachelor’s degree programs:
Baking & Pastry Arts
Business Studies
Culinary Arts
Culinary Nutrition
Culinary Science & Product Development
Food & Beverage Entrepreneurship
Food & Beverage Industry Management
Providence
Faculty Contact
Susan Lagalle
401-598-2080
Email
Richard Miscovich
401-598-2596
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.