URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/master-arts-teaching-mat.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Master of Arts in Teaching
Teacher Education
In this section
Apply Now
Request Information
Visit JWU
Majors & Degrees
Minors
Program Overview
Research has shown that teaching matters, and that high quality teachers are a key part of providing an equitable education for all students. Are you passionate about making a difference in the lives of others? Then earn a Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) degree from JWU.
Choose a concentration:
Business education/secondary special education
Elementary education/elementary special education
Culinary arts education
You and your classmates will matriculate as a cohort, following a set sequence of courses, usually two or three nights a week each semester. Your coursework includes field-based experiences in public school, applying what you’ve learned by working each week with public school students in a variety of school settings.
As you progress in your fieldwork, you will explore research-based theories and best practices in a real-world setting, first by observing, then working with individual students and small groups, and eventually planning lessons for whole-class instruction.
Upon completion of your coursework and fieldwork, you will be ready for the most dynamic experience of your journey: student teaching. Under the guidance of experienced teachers, you’ll have the chance to manage your own classroom, responding daily to students’ developmental and social needs. You’ll create and deliver lessons, learning on the job what it takes to earn the title of teacher.
Our practitioner faculty includes superintendents, district administrators, educational coaches and teachers, who use their experience in Rhode Island’s schools to bring learning to life in all of our university-based classrooms and who help you network for future job opportunities.
Upon graduation, you’ll be well prepared to apply for state licensure to teach in your dual content areas, giving you an advantage over other teaching candidates who possess state licensure in only one area.
Individual states may require specific licensing or professional certification in addition to earning a degree in order to practice in the field. For more information, visit the JWU Catalogs
Licensure & Professional Certification Disclosures
.
To learn more about the completion and employment rates for JWU’s Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) program, see the Rhode Island Department of Education’s
EdPrep Index
and the federal
Title II reporting
for Rhode Island data.
Sample MAT Courses
Assessment for Student Learning
Partnerships: Home/School/Community
Sustaining a Culinary Arts Program
Inclusive Teaching of Exceptional Learners
Teaching Financial Literacy
Methods of Teaching Culinary Arts
Specialized Instruction
Understanding & Managing Behavior in a Diverse Classroom
For a full course listing, visit the JWU Catalog:
Providence
Faculty Contact
Cynthia Senenko, M.Ed.
Interim Director of Teacher Education Programs
401-598-4846
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.