URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/mba-sport-leadership.html

Choose a Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Online
Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Providence Programs
/
MBA — Sport Leadership
Master of Business Administration
Sport Leadership
In this section
Program Overview
Examine the social and business issues that are critical to sport leadership through our MBA program with a Sport Leadership concentration. You’ll be equipped with the skills and knowledge to seek leadership positions in all facets of the globally-growing sports industry, which generated over $500 billion in the United States alone in 2014.
Our world-class MBA program is designed to accommodate the schedules of working professionals through our hybrid model, a combination of online and in-person classes.
Developed and updated in collaboration with leading companies, our professionally focused curriculum includes real-world projects and challenges so you can gain experience — what employers value the most.
Our faculty experts are leaders in the industry they teach. They know what it takes to achieve success in their respective fields and share their insights with you.
You’ll receive a strong foundation in business management with an emphasis on contemporary leadership, communication strategies and global issues in sport. Connect leadership principles and knowledge of sport industry to advance organizational objectives and support strategic initiatives.
Today’s fast-growing global sports industry has created a need for skilled professionals and organizational leaders who are equipped with a strong business acumen. This degree will help prepare students for leadership positions in this exciting industry that’s constantly innovating and redefining itself.
Sample Courses
Business Policy & Strategy
Global Issues in Sport Leadership
Contemporary Leadership Strategies in Sport
Operations Management
Effective Communication Strategies in Sport
For a full course listing, visit the JWU Catalog:
Providence
Online
Featured MBA in Sport Leadership Faculty
Jane Boyland
Associate Professor & Department Chair, The International Hotel School
Associate Professor Boyland also serves as the department chair of the International Hotel School at JWU’s Providence Campus.
William T. Klika III
Associate Professor
Assistant Professor Klika specializes in sport management, sport business and economics, global sport, sports sociology, and athletic administration.
Lee A. Esckilsen
Department Chair & Associate Professor
Esckilsen has developed courses in the areas of venue management, ticketing and access management. Before JWU, he was involved in the development and management of international + national public assembly venues.
Did You Know?
The sports market in North America is forecasted to grow by 3% from $69.1 billion in 2017 to $80.3 billion in 2022.
Faculty Contact
Jane Boyland, FMP, CHE
401-598-4624
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.