URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/mba-finance.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Master of Business Administration
Finance Concentration
In this section
Apply Now
Request Information
Visit JWU
Majors & Degrees
Minors
Program Overview
Have a passion for finance and want to propel your career? Our MBA with a concentration in Finance is designed to accommodate the schedule of working professionals.
From Wall Street to Main Street, businesses of all sizes need well-educated executive employees who are versed in the widening range of financial products worldwide to make the best investment decisions. In fact, the US Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts a 12% growth in the industry from 2014 to 2024.
Expand your expertise in financial strategy and analysis through an MBA with a Finance concentration at JWU. You’ll gain the business, financial, leadership and creative thinking skills needed to work in a number of enterprises and advance your professional career.
Our MBA program, created and updated in collaboration with industry-leading companies, combines a core MBA business curriculum with specific financial topics that include personal financial planning, estate planning, investment and portfolio management and more.
To be competitive while moving forward in your professional career, there are few things more helpful than specialization.
ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR STEPHEN POPLASKI, PH.D., CPA, CFP®
MBA in Finance Sample Courses
Business Policy and Strategy
Financial Management
Financial Reporting and Control
Estate Planning
Strategic Financial Planning
For a full course listing, visit the JWU Catalog:
Providence
Featured Faculty
John Krupa
Professor
Professor Krupa has held positions in marketing, sales management, selling, counseling, consulting and education. His underlying philosophy is that people have unlimited potential.
Mansour Moussavi
Professor
Moussavi teaches various courses in hospitality management, finance and economics. Prior to his teaching career, he spent 15 years working in hotels and restaurants in Europe and the United States.
Tim Howes
Associate Professor and Faculty Director of MBA Program
Howes has a 20-plus year track record of creating success at emerging consumer and business-oriented companies, Tim Howes has a passion for improving organizations and their people.
Did You Know?
According the Bureau of Labor Statistics, finance-related careers are trending upward, with an average 5% projected growth through 2029. That’s faster than average.
Top jobs for JWU Finance MBA alumni include:
Accountants and Auditors
Computer Systems Analysts
Entertainment & Recreation Managers (except gambling)
Financial and Investment Analysts
Financial Managers
Financial Risk Specialists
Personal Service Managers
Top Employers of JWU MBA Finance Alumni
Bank of America Corporation
Fidelity Investments
Citigroup, Inc.
State Street Corporation
Citizens Financial Group, Inc.
Hasbro, Inc.
Top Occupations for JWU MBA Finance Alumni
Accountant
Financial Analyst
Accounting Analyst
General Manager
Business Analyst
Portfolio Manager
Faculty Contact
Tim Howes, MS
Associate Professor and Faculty Director
MBA Programs
401-598-1404
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.