URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/mba-organizational-psychology.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Master of Business Administration
Organizational Psychology
In this section
Apply Now
Request Information
Visit JWU
Majors & Degrees
Minors
Program Overview
Workplace dynamics matter. Smart organizations are placing more emphasis on corporate culture, employee training, talent development and more. Through JWU’s MBA with an Organizational Psychology concentration, you can stand out as a leader who not only understands the required business competencies, but also has a firm grasp on what drives individual and team success.
Developed and updated in collaboration with leading companies, our professionally focused curriculum includes real-world projects and challenges so you can gain experience — what employers value the most.
Our faculty experts are leaders in the industry they teach. They know what it takes to achieve success in their respective fields and share their insights with you.
You’ll receive a strong foundation in business management while increasing your ability to formulate action plans and make decisions through the lens of organizational psychology.
Program Delivery
Providence students take their MBA foundation, core and capstone courses on campus and their MBA concentration courses online only.
It’s important to see the whole person in order to lead and manage individuals, teams and organizations.
PROFESSOR JOHN KRUPA
MBA in Organizational Psychology Sample Courses
Team Dynamics
Attitude and Motivation in the Workplace
Ethics, Corporate Social Responsibility and Law
Organizational Psychology
Business Policy and Strategy
For a full course listing, visit the JWU Catalog:
Providence
Featured Faculty
John Krupa
Professor
Professor Krupa has held positions in marketing, sales management, selling, counseling, consulting and education. His underlying philosophy is that people have unlimited potential.
Tim Howes
Associate Professor and Faculty Director of MBA Program
Howes has a 20-plus year track record of creating success at emerging consumer and business-oriented companies.
Did You Know?
Organizational psychologists have the benefit of working in a multitude of different industries because their wide range of knowledge is applicable in a variety of workplaces.
Faculty Contact
Paul Boyd, Ph.D.
Professor & Faculty Director
MBA Programs
401-598-1215
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.