URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/occupational-therapy-otd.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Entry-level OTD
Occupational Therapy Doctorate
Program Overview
Program Delivery
Unique to JWU
Articulation Agreements
In this section
OTD Home
Welcome & Faculty
News & Publications
Job Growth & Careers
Academics
Labs & Facilities
Fieldwork & Capstone
How to Apply & Costs
Technical Standards
Accreditation & Outcomes
Student Handbooks
Apply via OTCAS
Program Overview
Occupational therapy is in high demand. The Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts 18% job growth through 2028.
Be at the forefront of this rewarding and rapidly evolving field through JWU’s Occupational Therapy Doctorate (OTD), a pathway for bachelor’s degree recipients.
Learn how to assist and inspire people to maximize their health, well-being and quality of life while increasing their independence, self-confidence and self-worth. Devise adaptive ways for clients to connect with their environment and complete the work, recreational and self-care tasks they need to succeed through our custom-built OTD facilities.
Our program’s holistic approach addresses the vital importance of acknowledging people’s physical, psychological and emotional needs.
How Is the Program Delivered?
FULL TIME FOR 36 MONTHS • COHORT MODEL • JUNE START
JWU’s program runs full time for 36 months, with a June start. The “cohort model” means that the small group you start with (your “cohort”) stays together through the duration of the program, forming a familial bond and growing as practitioners together.
What Is Unique about JWU’s Entry-level OTD Program?
It focuses on examining the needs of individuals and populations within the community and emphasizing the valuable connections across multiple JWU colleges — with particular emphasis on the
Physician Assistant
,
Culinary Nutrition
,
Dietetics & Applied Nutrition
,
Physical Therapy
and
Equine Studies
programs, to name a few — to best serve societal needs in an interprofessional manner.
Experienced and nationally recognized faculty teaching in a state-of-the-art
facility
that creates a stimulating environment for student learning.
Fieldwork and capstone work
with lab experiences directly in the community and within emerging practice areas.
Our
Combined Degrees: Health Science B.S./OTD
allows qualified JWU students to earn, in a continuous plan of study, both a bachelor’s degree in Health Science and an OTD in as little as six years.
Gain Real World Occupational Therapy Experience
You’ll learn to serve individuals, groups, communities and populations, while also developing programs that offer a preventive focus and influence a broader scope of the population. Then apply and practice what you learned in class through fieldwork focused on mental health, pediatric, adult and older adult populations.
Through mentorship with our experienced faculty, you’ll set personal goals that will influence your professional growth. In addition, you will complete a capstone project that will help you gain the practical and research skills needed to become a highly competent occupational therapy practitioner.
Take a Deeper Dive
Take a deep dive into what makes this program special, from
our faculty
to
news
(including faculty research and interdisciplinary work with other JWU colleges).
Explore our academics
, potential
career pathways
and
program outcomes
.
And if you’re ready to start your application, familiarize yourself with the
process, prerequisites and costs
.
Amplifying Voices & Increasing Diversity in OTD
Monique Dawes, OTD, OTR/L, CPAM, has practiced occupational therapy across the country, but her roots remain here in New England. Now, she is leading the charge in training and diversifying the field of occupational therapists here at Johnson & Wales, and she is representing JWU as a local leader in the newest cohort of the Equity Leadership Initiative within the Rhode Island Foundation. Hear her story:
Toggle
Articulation Agreements
Johnson & Wales University is dedicated to recruiting students from local area college and universities through articulation agreements.
JWU maintains an articulation agreement with the University of Massachusetts Dartmouth to provide a pathway for UMASS-Dartmouth undergraduate students to matriculate into JWU’s OTD program. Interested students should contact the pre-health advisor at their institution.
Follow Us on Social Media
Facebook
Instagram
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.