URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/educational-leadership-edd.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Doctor of Education
Educational Leadership Ed.D.
In this section
Ed.D. Home
Program Outcomes & Structure
Faculty & Staff
JWU-PRN Partnership
Dissertation
Tuition & Fees
How to Apply
FAQs
Resources
Alumni Network
JWU Catalog: Ed.D.
Program Overview
Educational leaders drive the world. Helping shape future generations is a responsibility that can change the world — something Johnson & Wales University has experience with.
As one of New England’s premier educational leadership programs, JWU Providence’s Educational Leadership Doctor of Education degree (Ed.D.) will develop your leadership capacity and teach you how to advance change in PK-12 and higher education settings. You’ll build the skills to promote excellence and create positive and necessary change in educational institutions.
Our Educational Leadership program exemplifies the university’s mission of blending academic and work-based learning for career advancement.
As a practice-focused doctoral program, JWU’s Ed.D. experience provides students the opportunity to learn with a cohort of talented practitioners while building research, leadership, and dispositional skills to support career advancement and impactful change.
Our students come from a broad base of backgrounds, and together they learn as a professional learning community, developing their own knowledge and understanding of other educational settings to improve their practice as leaders.
PROGRAM DIRECTOR KAREN SWOBODA, ED.D.
How JWU’s Ed.D Program Supports Your Leadership Growth
When you choose JWU’s Ed.D. program, you can select from the Elementary/Secondary Education or the Higher Education cohort tracks — both provide a supportive peer network to discuss, analyze, and solve educational challenges collectively.
Together, in your cohort, you’ll focus your investigation and discussion around theory, professional practice, and research interests. Our team approach promotes a true network of working scholars who can examine, critique, support, and complement one another’s educational practice.
Our Educational Leadership degree combines experiential, collaborative, project-based, and interactive learning opportunities to provide the right blend of individual and team-based tasks through synchronous, asynchronous, remote, and in-person elements. Our multi-faceted and comprehensive program structure supports students of the future.
Sample Doctor of Education Courses
Nature of Higher Education
Leadership in Higher Education
Resource Planning & Management in Higher Education
Leadership in Elementary and Secondary Education
Strategy & Change in Elementary and Secondary Education
Research I & II
Organizational Theory, Behavior & Development in Elementary and Secondary Education
For a full course listing, visit the JWU catalog:
Providence
Advantages of Earning Your Educational Leadership Degree at JWU
Innovative Program:
Our Educational Leadership Ed.D. program is designed to blend the best of all learning environments — you’ll learn through synchronous and asynchronous coursework remotely, accompanied by in-person learning opportunities with your peers in our Providence campus.
Professional Focus:
We offer two content-specific cohorts, Elementary/Secondary and Higher Education, beginning each fall. Students travel through the program at the same pace, bonding through shared synchronous experiences, group/partner work, and feedback and guidance from full-time and practitioner faculty.
Accomplished Faculty:
You will learn from experts — in research as well as connected content. Our practitioner faculty —both full and part-time — work in authentic settings as educational leaders. Their experience enriches the learning in meaningful and authentic ways.
Continuous Support:
Our program’s robust personalization and effective dissertation advising supports a consistently high on-time program completion rate.
Personal Connections:
Our strong program presence on JWU Providence’s Harborside Campus provides you with access to full-time faculty, program offices, library and other services to augment and support the program. Program administration and faculty have a hands-on and student-focused outlook to speak with and guide students.
Network for Life:
JWU’s Ed.D. program has had more than 400 successful graduates, most of whom are active and connected members of the program’s alumni network.
APPLY NOW
Featured Doctorate of Education Faculty
Felice Billups
Professor
Professor Billups’ research focuses on collegiate culture/subcultures, qualitative and mixed methods research approaches, organizational effectiveness, and the doctoral student experience.
Victor Mercurio
Associate Professor
Prior to joining JWU, Mercurio served as superintendent of the East Greenwich Public Schools in East Greenwich, Rhode Island, for 10+ years.
Stacey Kite
Professor
Since 2007, Professor Kite’s research has focused on cyberbullying and internet risk, including student and parent perceptions of these topics.
Meet Our Faculty
Did You Know?
Johnson & Wales University’s Ed.D. program is an active member of the
Carnegie Project on the Education Doctorate (CPED)
, a national effort by more than 100 institutions to reform and strengthen the education doctorate. Read more about our education
program outcomes
.
Faculty Contact
Victor Mercurio, Ed.D.
Interim Director of the Educational Leadership Program
401-598-2434
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.