URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/culinary-science-product-development-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Bachelor of Science
Culinary Science & Product Development
Program Overview
Build Your Skills
Sample Courses
Unique to JWU
Lab
Contact
In this section
Product Design for Better Food
Have you ever wondered what it takes to bring new food or beverage products from concept to market? A unique blend of culinary arts and food science, JWU’s Culinary Science & Product Development bachelor of science program prepares you for a career as a research chef, food technologist or flavor expert in product development labs and test kitchens.
With classes in academic and lab environments, you’ll focus on the core competencies of culinary arts and baking and pastry arts, then expand into product development and food technology. Explore food regulations and labeling, food safety, food processing and more. Then put your education into practice by completing a senior-level internship focused on food science, research and development or manufacturing.
When you graduate, you’ll be prepared to develop food and beverage products that meet consumer needs. Make your food ideas a reality with employers such as Campbell’s, Kraft Heinz Company, Tyson Foods, Dunkin’ Brands, Land O’Lakes, McCormick and Stonewall Kitchen.
Individual states may require specific licensing or professional certification in addition to earning a degree in order to practice in the field. Learn more via the Catalog’s
Licensure & Professional Certification Disclosures
. Admissions is contingent upon meeting the technical standards
technical standards
for this program.
Request Information
Loading...
Flavors & Fun at Del’s
Caleb Atkinson '24 and Sang Hoon “Sang” Chae '23 have the most enviable job in Rhode Island: Working on flavor product development at Del’s, the iconic summer treat. Learn all about their experience in the lemonade lab:
The Del’s Experience
Blend Culinary Arts and Food Science
Start by choosing an 18‐credit foundation in culinary arts or baking & pastry arts. From there, you will be introduced to food science and how food is metabolized in the body. Applied culinary science lab courses build your understanding of the product development process. Topics in food regulations, labeling and food analysis prepare you for advanced coursework before you embark on your required internship.
What sets our program apart?
Immersive lab experiences integrating culinary arts and food science.
Real-world projects simulate product development scenarios.
Internships in industry-leading culinary centers, test kitchens and food development labs.
Instruction and mentorship from professionals who bridge academia and industry.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Johnson & Wales Providence (@jwuprovidence)
Sample Courses
Foundations in Chemistry
Food Ingredient Technology
Food Product Design & Development
Food Processing
Food Science
Food Ingredient Technology
Food & Beverage Cost Control
CFIT Advanced Internship
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits. For a full course listing, visit the JWU Catalog:
Culinary Science & Product Development (BS)
Career Possibilities
Research Chef
Product Developer
Food Technologist
Recipe Developer
Quality Assurance Manager
Flavor Chemist
Sensory Scientist
Culinary Educator
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Why JWU’s Program Is Unique
JWU has been training and placing graduates in the food industry since 2001. Culinary science is now integral to food product development, from consumer-packaged goods to chain restaurant commissaries. Careers in the industry generally can offer a quality work-life balance — think 9-5.
JWU’s Culinary Science and Product Development program fully integrates culinary arts with food science. The program begins by building a thorough understanding of culinary arts or baking & pastry arts fundamentals, then moves into food science-focused courses, like food ingredient technology, food product development and food processing.
Lab Tour
In our Food Innovation Design Lab (FIDL), learn to design commercial food products from scratch — from researching target markets to refining shelf-stable recipes. The FIDL and our food service kitchens are also where you can explore emerging areas of culinary arts, from food packaging to sustainable food sourcing, food safety and regulation, and more.
Explore Our Food Innovation Design Lab
Providence
Faculty Contact
Lynn Tripp
401-598-2731
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.