URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/chefs-choice.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Recreational Cooking Classes
Chef’s Choice®
Recreational Classes
Professional Kitchen Series
Customized Classes
Gift Certificates
Policies
In this section
Chef’s Choice
Ecolab Center
Summer Camps for Kids & Teens
Wine & Beverage Education
Recreational Cooking Classes
JWU Providence’s recreational cooking classes will help you sharpen your cooking skills, explore global cuisines and cook like a pro.
Classes combine hands-on experience with demonstrations under the direction of our professional chef-instructors. In just a few hours, you can:
explore world cuisines
improve your culinary fundamentals
perfect your favorite pastry, cookie or confection
Looking to purchase Chef’s Choice gift certificates? Go
here
.
Fall 2024 Classes
All classes run on Saturdays from 9am-noon.
October 26: Autumn Quick Breads
Spruce up your table this Autumn by learning how to make delicious and savory breads.
October 26: Autumn Comfort One-Pot Meals
Learn to create easy and delicious meals in one pot.
November 16: Thanksgiving Shareable Dishes
Learn to make delicious shareable dishes to upgrade your Thanksgiving table.
November 16: Thanksgiving Sweets & Treats
Learn to make a variety of sweets and treats to elevate your dessert table this Thanksgiving.
December 14: International Holiday Dishes
Explore and learn about the similarities between holiday dishes from France, Italy and Spain.
December 14: Winter Desserts
Explore cold-weather treats for the holiday table.
Register for Fall Classes
Costs
Starting at $140 per person for a three-hour experience (capped at 18 participants)
Have questions about Chef’s Choice? Contact us
by email
or by calling
401-598-4598
.
Explore Professional Kitchen Classes
JWU Providence’s Professional Kitchen classes are targeted towards experienced food enthusiasts or industry professionals. It is recommended to have an existing knowledge and understanding of professional equipment.
Classes will range in levels and offer in-depth explorations of topics.
They will run a duration of 1 full day or up to 5 days depending on course content.
During these classes, expect to:
Improve on industry skills
Expand knowledge in new content areas
Network with other industry professionals/enthusiasts
Pricing will vary based on the duration and course content. Classes will be capped at 18 registrants.
Inside the Professional Kitchen: Artisan Hearth Breads with Chef Miscovich
Saturday, January 18, 2025, 4-7pm and Sunday, January 19, 2025, 9am-4pm
Cost: $425 per person
Join JWU Providence International Baking & Pastry Institute Department Chair Richard Miscovich and experience the process of baking a collection of artisan hearth breads. While this class is held in one of JWU’s state-of-the-art professional kitchens, we will cover baking techniques at home and utilizing domestic equipment. Class takes place over two days; Saturday class runs from 4-7pm and Sunday class runs from 9am-4pm.
RSVP FOR JANUARY 18 & 19
Design a Customized Experience
Choose from the following:
Customized Corporate Experiences
From knife skills to world cuisines, artisan breads to French pastries, there’s sure to be a class just for you. Bring your team to the table and let JWU host your next teambuilding experience!
Hands-on Cooking
Our 3-hour hands-on cooking experiences, designed for groups from 12-16 participants, include two hours of cooking and learning under the direction of a JWU chef-instructor. Class is followed by a family meal served in the adjacent dining room.
Competitive Challenges
Let us customize your event by incorporating team cooking challenges, such as Mystery Basket or Iron Chef-style competitions. We will customize your event to suit your time and needs.
For more information about customized experiences, including pricing, contact us at the above contact number.
Gift Certificates
Just in time for the holidays!
Looking for the perfect gift for that foodie in your life? Want to try a new cuisine? Want to celebrate a family event or just looking for a fun night out? Chef’s Choice Recreational Cooking Classes gift certificates are perfect for anyone who loves food.
Each certificate allows for one participant to attend any future recreational cooking class in the Chef’s Choice program at our Providence Campus. Buy one for that special person in your life or multiple ones so the family can enjoy an educational journey into food.
To redeem a gift card, contact us by
email
.
Purchase a Gift Certificate
Terms & conditions
(PDF) apply.
Policies
Refunds
To receive a full refund, you must cancel your registration up to 14 full days prior to the scheduled class. JWU reserves the right to cancel classes due to insufficient enrollment.
You must be at least 16 to register for Chef’s Choice.
Food Allergies
If you have food allergies, please be aware that JWU does not guarantee an allergen-free environment. Recipes may contain nuts, nut oils, shellfish, dairy, produce and other food allergens.
Dress Code
You’ll be working in a kitchen, so dress appropriately:
Flat, rubber-soled shoes (such as sneakers) are required (preferably slip-resistant)
NO open shoes or high heels
Bring your own cloth apron (or purchase a Chef’s Choice apron for an additional $30)
NO plastic aprons, for safety reasons
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.