URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/mba-operations-supply-chain-management.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Master of Business Administration
Operations and Supply Chain Management Concentration
In this section
Apply Now
Request Information
Visit JWU
Majors & Degrees
Minors
Program Overview
Set yourself apart as a leader in supply chain logistics, optimization, and performance through JWU’s MBA with a concentration in Operations and Supply Chain Management.
This enhanced degree provides an in-depth study of effective business practices and Lean principles and methodologies. The degree’s concentration in operations and supply chain management also delivers a targeted knowledge of logistics strategy, operations management, and systems analysis. This body of knowledge will serve as a benchmark for achievements and a common roadmap for continuous improvement and workforce development.
Developed in partnership with successful industry experts, this master’s degree prepares students to be strategic and creative problem solvers in today’s evolving business landscape.
What Are the Advantages of JWU’s Operations & Supply Chain Management MBA?
Upon completion of the program, graduates are expected to:
Gather, interpret and analyze research to inform decision making at operational and strategic levels of an organization.
Use advanced communication skills and awareness of cultural differences in global and domestic business interactions.
Analyze problems from a diverse perspective, propose effective solutions and evaluate the impact of executive decisions.
Assess and evaluate business entities taking into account cross-functional environments as they affect ethical decision making in domestic and global organizations.
Analyze business supply chains and make strategic recommendations for maximizing benefits to all stakeholders.
Program Delivery
Providence students take their MBA foundation, core and capstone courses on campus and their MBA concentration courses online only.
At no time has effective supply chain management been as important as it is today. Supply chain management is a rewarding career path with opportunities in every industry worldwide.
ELIZABETH ROBSON, JD, Owner/CEO, JF Moran
Sample MBA — Operations & Supply Chain Management Courses
Designing & Managing Supply Chains
Global Strategic Sourcing
Global Logistics
Lean Production & Quality Control
Business Policy & Strategy
Effective Leadership
For a full course listing, visit the JWU Catalog:
Providence
Featured Faculty
Nihar Kumthekar
Associate Professor
Kumthekar teaches courses in logistics, operations, and supply chain management at the undergraduate and graduate levels.
Tim Howes
Associate Professor and Faculty Director of MBA Program
Howes has a 20-plus year track record of creating success at emerging consumer and business-oriented companies.
Mary Meixell
Dean, College of Business
Dean Meixell teaches operations and supply chain management, project management and management science.
Did You Know?
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, finance-related careers are trending, with an average 4% projected growth through 2029.
90% of MBA Operations and Supply Chain Management alumni are working in a field related to their program of study.
Top Occupations for MBA Operations & Supply Chain Management Alumni
Buyer and Purchasing Agents
General & Operations Managers
Compliance Officers
Purchasing Managers
Economists
Project Management Specialists
Top MBA Operations & Supply Chain Management Alumni Skills
Forecasting
Supply Chain Management
Inventory Management
Operations Management
Marketing Strategies
Purchasing
Faculty Contact
Tim Howes, MS
Associate Professor and Faculty Director
MBA Programs
401-598-1404
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.