URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/mba-accounting.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Master of Business Administration
Accounting Concentration
In this section
Apply Now
Request Information
Visit JWU
Majors & Degrees
Minors
Program Overview
Rise through the ranks in your accounting career with Johnson & Wales University’s MBA in Accounting. You’ll master the core business disciplines and gain advanced expertise in the latest accounting standards through our accounting program.
Our world-class MBA program, among the largest in New England, is designed to accommodate the schedules of working professionals.
With JWU’s MBA in Accounting degree, you’ll be prepared to pursue management-level positions in your accounting career within any industry around the world.
Developed and updated in collaboration with leading companies, our professionally focused curriculum includes real-world projects and challenges so you can gain experience in the accounting field — what employers value the most.
Our MBA Accounting program faculty experts are leaders in the industry they teach. They know what it takes to achieve success in their respective fields and share their insights with you.
With JWU’s MBA in Accounting degree, you’ll gain theoretical knowledge while learning how advanced accounting principles and techniques are applied in practice. You’ll also gain an understanding of research techniques that successful practitioners use most often.
“This program will prepare you to emerge as a leader and decision maker in an increasingly complex global business climate.”
ADJUNCT KARLTON LOUGH CPA, J.D.
MBA in Accounting Sample Courses
Accounting Theory
Advanced Auditing
Corporate Taxation
Ethics, Corporate Social Responsibility & Law
Law for Accountants
Individual Taxation
For a full course listing, visit the JWU Catalog:
Providence
Online
JWU MBA Alumni Honored at
PBN
‘40 Under 40’
Three JWU alumni have been honored by the
Providence Business News
(PBN) at their 17th annual “40 Under Forty” program, which honors 40 Rhode Islanders under the age of 40 who have achieved career success and continue to stay involved in their communities. We are so proud of our alumni.
As a principal at Warwick, Rhode Island-based DiSanto Priest & Co., John Rainone '10 MBA, CPA, CCIFP, works on audits and financial statements for the construction and real estate fields. Prior to becoming a CPA, the Rhode Island native got his bachelor’s degree in Accounting from Assumption University (Worcester, Mass.), before getting his MBA in Accounting from JWU.
“[JWU’s program] gave me more of a network in terms of my business and looking for clients, and it was right around the corner from where I was working in Providence at the time,” Rainone explains. “It helped me move along in the natural progression of being a CPA.”
Fellow honoree Gregory Scorpio '09 has been with global sporting goods company G-Form for the last 5 years, serving as chief financial officer responsible for accounting. It’s been a fit for Scorpio, who called JWU’s Harborside Campus home for a brief stint while getting his MBA in Accounting alongside his now-wife.
“The professors we had were working in the professional world and that experience was much more relatable to real-world experience than what I received as an undergraduate,” Scorpio notes of his academic work at JWU.
“It was a lot of group and team activities like preparing presentations and projects, and I saw an opportunity to take that leadership role in those groups which correlated into a role into my real-world experience.”
Featured Faculty
Patricia Conn Ryan
Professor and Department Chair, Accountancy & Finance
Conn Ryan spent three years working in public accounting and five years in internal audit before transitioning to a career in education. She is passionate about accounting and encouraging her students to believe in themselves.
Deborah Doonan
Associate Professor
After a handful of years in public accounting, Doonan was fortunate to achieve her lifelong dream when she was hired to teach accounting and taxes at JWU.
Tim Howes
Associate Professor and Faculty Director of MBA Program
Howes has a 20-plus year track record of creating success at emerging consumer and business-oriented companies.
Top Employers of JWU MBA Accounting Alumni
Amica Mutual Insurance Company
Defense Contract Audit Agency
CVS Health Corporation
State of Rhode Island
Bank of America
United Natural Foods, Inc.
Top Job Titles for JWU MBA Accounting Alumni
Accountant
Financial Risk Specialist
Auditor
Financial/Investment Analyst
Director of Finance
Tax Accountant
Did You Know?
$82,936: Estimated salary of alumni from this program
84% of alumni are working in a field related to their program of study.
Faculty Contact
Tim Howes, MS
Associate Professor and Faculty Director
MBA Programs
401-598-1404
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.