URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/equine-studies-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Bachelor of Science
Equine Studies
Program Overview
Student Spotlight
Learn by Doing
Labs
Courses
Faculty
In this section
Turn your passion for horses into a rewarding career
With over 40 years of experience in equine education, JWU offers one of the only equine programs in the Northeast. Equine Studies was developed to be truly comprehensive and allow you to explore a wide variety of equine-related topics. Plus, you can complete the general course of study or choose from two specializations within the program to customize your degree:
Equine Business Management Specialization
Take a suite of courses from the College of Business to develop financial literacy, strategic planning, entrepreneurship, operations management and total quality management skills.
Equine-Assisted Services Specialization
Explore the expanding fields of equine-assisted services, including therapeutic riding, equine-assisted learning and hippotherapy. Upon completing your degree, you will have the skills and knowledge to pursue careers in therapeutic riding instruction, horse management, riding program management, and equine-assisted learning and therapy.
Request Information
Loading...
JWU Equine Experience: Kentucky Derby Grounds
Each year, students can take part in the JWU Equine Experience, a domestic study away trip that rotates annually between Kentucky and Florida. In spring 2024, students travelled to Kentucky to visit Churchill Downs, the famed complex that hosts the Kentucky Derby.
Experiential Education
Thanks to the partnerships we have developed with local farms, stables and research facilities, you’ll be able to ride, handle and
care for horses in real settings
as part of your coursework.
In this program, you’ll:
Work closely with horses at our partner research facilities and farms.
Learn more about organic farming and sustainable practices.
Learn how facility design and management practices can influence horse health and behavior.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by JWU Equine & Animal Science (@jwuequineanimalstudies)
Industry-Focused Facilities
With 10+ experiential education and riding partner facilities around Rhode Island and nearby Massachusetts, students have a variety of real-world settings to learn in.
Partner Riding Facilities
Students can take riding courses at our local partner riding facilities, which include:
Apple Knoll Farm
Avastar Dressage & Lepore Farm
Downeast Performance Horses
Equi Evolution
Faith Hill Farm
Glen Farm Stables
Hunter Ridge Farm
Ocean Crest Farm LLC
Palmer River Equestrian Center
Prospect Hill Farm LLC
Tibri Horses
Sample Courses
Equine Lameness & Sports Therapy
Equine Reproduction and Genetics
Sport Horse Evaluation and Judging
Equine Facility Design and Operation Management
Horse Farm Management and Business Planning
Equine Competition Management and Course Design
Foundations of Horsemanship & Riding Theory
Equine-Assisted Services
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits.
View the full catalog course listing:
View Catalog
Career Possibilities
Farm Manager/Owner
Equine Advertising Account Manager
Horse Show Manager
Horse/Breed Association Publicist
Therapeutic Riding Instructor/ Program Manager
Equine-Assisted Learning & Therapy
Equine Business Entrepreneur
Equine Sports Therapist
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Featured Faculty
Our professors and instructors are dedicated to the success of our students. Learn more about our
expert faculty members
.
Christopher Holland
Assistant Professor
Chris completed his undergraduate degree in pre-vet animal science with dual minors in marine biology and psychology at the University of Rhode...
Crystal Taylor
Associate Professor
Crystal Taylor, M.A. has been actively involved in the equine industry for more than 30 years and coaches JWU's Intercollegiate Dressage Team.
Dirk Fogg
Associate Professor
Dirk Fogg, MBA teaches theoretical and practical classes on a wide range of equine-related topics, including horse farm business planning, course design, equine physiology and more.
Related Programs
Animal Science
This program allows you to learn about a variety of species and specialize in Pre-Veterinary Studies or Equine Science.
Biology
This is an interdisciplinary program that also explores chemistry, physics, molecular biology, ecology and biochemistry.
Health Science
In this program, you’ll explore different approaches to health and wellness and learn more about the healthcare industry.
Visit JWU
Explore where you’ll live, learn, and enjoy all campus has to offer.
Schedule an In-Person Tour
Faculty Contact
Jackie Bowser, DVM, Ph.D., DACVIM-LA
Department Chair & Professor
508-252-5700
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.