URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/programs-by-campus/providence-programs/culinary-nutrition-bs.html

Home
/
Academics
/
Academic Programs by Campus
/
Bachelor of Science
Culinary Nutrition
Program Overview
Sample Courses
Learn by Doing
Contact
In this section
Food as Preventive Care
What foods make the most effective fuel for athletes? How can food prevent disease and prolong good health? Learn to harness food’s therapeutic power in JWU’s Culinary Nutrition bachelor of science degree program.
Gain the skills and expertise to meet the growing demand for healthy cuisine in restaurants, healthcare, athletics and other settings.
The foundational courses in your first two years (choose from baking & pastry arts or culinary arts tracks) build your expertise and techniques, leadership and other essential skills. From there, transition into career‐focused courses focused on improving the way people eat, including applied culinary nutrition, food science and athletic performance cuisine. As a junior or senior, strengthen your skills through an advanced internship or study abroad experience.
Post Graduation
When you graduate, you’ll be ready to create, modify, manage and prepare specialized cuisines in any arena where food and nutrition blend into a healthy lifestyle — making a difference in the lives of many.
Admissions is contingent upon meeting the
technical standards
for this program. Individual states may require specific licensing or professional certification in addition to earning a degree in order to practice in the field. Learn more via the Catalog’s
Licensure & Professional Certification Disclosures
.
Request Information
Loading...
Problem-Solve for Health
For Culinary Nutrition alum Toniann Rizzuto '22, making healthy food taste amazing is one of her biggest goals on the job. “This program is perfect for a chef who wants to be competent in nutrition or a nutrition professional who wants to understand how to cook.”
7 Lessons in Nutrition
How Our Program Prepares You
Culinary nutrition career options are wide‐ranging. You might execute the meal plans and recipes prescribed by a registered dietitian, or plan wellness education programs for a community center or public health organization. You could also become a chef for a restaurant, professional sports team, spa, school or healthcare facility — or start a private chef business focused on healthy food.
Our alums work at influential organizations like the NFL and NHL, Trifecta Nutrition and the US International Olympic Training Center.
Sample Courses
Advanced Food Safety, HACCP & Special Processes
Applied Culinary Nutrition
Athletic Performance Cuisine
Community Nutrition
Food Science
Lifespan Nutrition
Therapeutic Cuisine
Vegetarian Cuisine
CFIT Advanced Internship
In addition to classes, free elective credit can be applied to a number of options such as Directed Experiential Education (DEE), internship, minor or study abroad. You are encouraged to contact an advisor before scheduling free elective credits. View the full JWU Catalog course listing:
Culinary Nutrition (BS)
Career Possibilities
Catering Chef
Nutrition Educator
Corporate Chef
Private Dining Chef
Hospital Chef
School Chef
Worksite Wellness Manager
Some professions may require additional study, background checks, certifications, licenses, exams and/or experience as required qualifications for employment. Students are responsible for verifying that they can meet the employment requirements of potential employers.
Learn by Doing
Absorb nutrition theory as applied across the lifespan, while exploring traditional, alternative and specialized diets. Throughout the program, learn to:
Develop, analyze and execute nutritionally sound food that not only tastes good but adheres to current dietary guidelines.
Complement culinary skills and nutrition theory with coursework in financial and personnel management
Apply your skills in an industry setting through a required advanced internship
Peer-to-Peer Learning
The Nutrition Society is open to all JWU students (including culinary nutrition majors) who are interested in better nutrition. During monthly meetings and special events, students can:
Network with alums working in the field
Attend panel discussions to learn from successful nutrition professionals, many of them alums
Boost your nutrition skills through group activities
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by JWU Nutrition & Dietetics (@jwunutrition_dietetics)
Featured Culinary Nutrition Faculty
Jonathan Poyourow
Professor
As a sports dietitian at JWU, I get questions all the time about how athletes should eat.
Todd Seyfarth
Associate Professor
The recipe for good health is exercise, stress management, plenty of sleep and, of course, food — especially food rich in fiber and antioxidants.
Faculty Contact
Jonathan Poyourow, M.A., RD
401-598-4981
Email
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.