URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/undergraduate/psychology/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Bachelor’s
>
BS Psychology
PROGRAM DETAILS
4 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Ready to dive deeper into human psychology through your career? Explore human behavior and understand its complex relationship with the surrounding world with this online Bachelor of Science in Psychology degree program. You can cultivate your conceptual and practical approaches to the field of psychology. This bachelor’s of psychology online program prepares you as an effective researcher and clinician so you can pursue better psychological health within many areas—from substance abuse recovery to mental health counseling to organizational psychology and more.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s John Hazen White College of Arts & Sciences.
What You'll Learn
Apply key concepts, theories and research findings in the discipline of psychology to understand, explain and evaluate human behavior.
Use creative and critical thinking to evaluate, interpret, design and conduct basic psychological research in accordance with ethical principles of the field.
Integrate ethical practice, sociocultural factors and diversity considerations when addressing the needs of individuals in complex multicultural environments.
Demonstrate written, oral and interpersonal communication skills required of psychology professionals.
Articulate a plan to establish a professional identity, and to pursue professional development in the field of psychology.
Take the next step in your psychology career with a bachelor of psychology online from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Undergraduate Rates 2024 - 2025
$495
Per Credit Hours
$1,485
Per 3 Credit Hours
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Are you eligible for a scholarship or a grant? Check out all your options and see if you qualify.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
ONLINE BACHELOR’S DEGREE IN PSYCHOLOGY Sample Courses
Coursework for your bachelor of psychology online degree covers the essentials in psychology, including abnormal psychology, developmental psychology, cultural psychology, anatomy and physiology, research methods, ethics, human behavior and more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Psychology Major Courses
Course Title
Abnormal Psychology
Developmental Psychology
Introduction to Neuropsychology and Psychopharmacology
Research Seminar in Psychology
Psychology Major Electives
Course Title
Criminology
Counseling Theories and Techniques
Psychological Issues of Substance Use Disorders and Compulsive Behaviors
Social Issues in Contemporary America
Applied/Experiential Learning
Course
College of Arts & Sciences Internship
OR
Directed Experiential Education
OR
Undergraduate Research Experience
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your bachelor of psychology online degree? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application.
If you’re ready for a degree that can position you for your next career move, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH An online BS in psychology DEGREE?
Your JWU psychology degree positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in psychology. Graduates of this program have found employment in companies such as:
Lifespan
Mass General Brigham
Nemours Children’s Health
Mile High Recovery Center
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in psychology. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.
“Similar to most of my peers in the online classes, I’m a not a ‘traditional student.’ Maintaining a full family life, working part-time and being a student hasn’t been easy, but it has been a really great experience. The Psychology program, although challenging, has been extremely thorough and informative.”
– Adriana Milko, ’24
Read the Full Story