URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/undergraduate/public-health/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Bachelor’s
>
BS Public Health
PROGRAM DETAILS
4 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Do you aspire to develop public health solutions in your community? This online Bachelor of Science in Public Health degree can develop your approach to supporting public health initiatives and programming — from public health information and public health communications to public health policy and research. This bachelor’s of public health online program helps you master the tools you need to strengthen public health equity in a number of ways in your career. Graduates will be prepared for entry-level public health jobs in education, health promotion, research, monitoring and evaluation and health and policy administration.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU's College of Health & Wellness.
What You'll Learn
Apply fundamental biologic, socio-economic, behavioral, ethical, cultural and spiritual principles to the practice of health and wellness.
Synthesize foundational knowledge and the results of inquiry and research.
Effectively communicate health and wellness principles to diverse populations.
Work collaboratively as a member of a health and wellness team to improve individual and community outcomes.
Compare and discuss major local, national and global health challenges related to healthcare access and outcomes.
Take the next step in your public health career with a bachelor of public health online from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Undergraduate Rates 2024 - 2025
$495
Per Credit Hours
$1,485
Per 3 Credit Hours
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Are you eligible for a scholarship or a grant? Check out all your options and see if you qualify.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
Online BACHELOR OF PUBLIC HEALTH Sample Courses
Coursework for your online bachelor's degree in public health covers the essentials of public health, including determinants of health, global health, cooking for health & wellness, epidemiology comparative healthcare systems and more. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Public Health Major Courses
Course Title
Determinants of Health
Epidemiology
Comparative Healthcare Systems
Health Policy, Ethics and the Law
Public Health Major Electives
Course Title
Economics of Pandemics
Health Education and Program Planning
Psychological Issues of Substance Use Disorders and Compulsive Behaviors
Healthcare Research Ethics
Applied/Experiential Learning
Course Title
College of Health & Wellness Internship
OR
Directed Experiential Education
OR
Study Abroad
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your online bachelor's degree in public health? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application.
If you’re ready for a degree that can position you for your next career move, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH An online BS in public health DEGREE?
Your JWU public health degree positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in public health. Graduates of this program have found employment in companies such as:
Rhode Island Department of Health
Massachusetts Department of Health
Brown Medicine
US Alcohol Policy Alliance
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in public health. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.