URL: https://online.jwu.edu/academics/undergraduate/sports-entertainment-event-management/

JWU CPS
>
Academics
>
Bachelor’s
>
BS Sports, Entertainment, Event Management
PROGRAM DETAILS
4 Years
to complete your degree
Online
career-focused curriculum
7 or 15
week course length
95.4%
career outcomes rate
19:1
student to faculty ratio
Program Overview
Does the hustle and excitement around performance-driven entertainment and events thrill you? Gain the skills and insight you need to succeed in the multibillion-dollar sports, entertainment, and event management industry with our online Bachelor of Science in Sports, Entertainment, Event – Management degree program. You’ll acquire a strong business foundation to fuel your career in this fast-moving field, and then build upon that knowledge with advanced coursework in such areas as media literacy, ticketing methods, venue management and negotiations and agreements.
In addition, the program allows you to specialize your studies in major elective classes that will directly impact your chosen career path, such as professional sports management; event planning within the corporate, nonprofit, and hospitality industry; sports and entertainment marketing; tournament management; concert and event production; and more.
This program is offered in collaboration with JWU’s College of Hospitality Management.
What You'll Learn
Apply and synergize core industry and business knowledge realms within a sports, entertainment, and events management industry context.
Communicate effectively to diverse audiences, purposes, and situations in a variety of contexts within the sports, entertainment, and event management industry.
Use decision support tools to solve problems and facilitate organizational processes by applying critical thinking and ethical problem solving to management decisions within the sports, entertainment, and event management industry.
Demonstrate leadership skills and adapt them to a diverse global market in the sports, entertainment, and event management industry.
Take the next step in your sports entertainment and event management career with an online sports, entertainment and event management degree from Johnson & Wales University.
Start your application today
.
Tuition & Fees
At Johnson & Wales University, we believe a high-quality education should help you reach for your career goals, not weigh you down with college debt. So we are constantly working to provide competitively priced college tuition.
Online Undergraduate Rates 2024 - 2025
$495
Per Credit Hours
$1,485
Per 3 Credit Hours
Resources for Paying for College
Scholarship Opportunities
Are you eligible for a scholarship or a grant? Check out all your options and see if you qualify.
View Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Get an estimated cost of attending JWU CPS — including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and more.
Estimate Your Cost
Financial Aid Options
Applying for financial aid doesn’t have to be a chore. We can help. Explore all your financial aid options today.
View Financial Aid
ONLINE SPORTS, ENTERTAINMENT AND EVENT MANAGEMENT DEGREE Sample Courses
Coursework for your Sports, Entertainment, Event - Management offers the strategies, and analytical skills needed to pursue career success in variety of careers amateur and professional sports, entertainment venues, production companies, and entertainment venues. Take a look at some options of courses you could take.
Sports, Entertainment, Event – Management Major Courses
Course Title
Introduction to the Sports, Entertainment and Event Management Industry
Safety, Security and Risk Management in the SEEM Industry
Fan Engagement and the Guest Experience
Relationship Management: Sales, Sponsorship and Negotiations
Business Foundations Courses
Course Title
Accounting for Hospitality Service Organizations
Financial Management for Hospitality Service Organizations
The Legal Environment of Business
Hospitality Law
Applied/Experiential Learning
Course Title
College of Hospitality Management Internship
OR
Directed Experiential Education
OR
Study Abroad
Please note that some courses may be 15 weeks long. For the most up-to-date and complete course listing information, as well as full course descriptions,
visit our catalog.
Admissions Requirements
Ready to begin your sports, entertainment, event  – management bachelor’s degree online? Johnson & Wales University is here to help. We start with a dedicated online admissions associate who will work with you one-on-one to answer all your questions and help guide you through the process. We cap it off with a free application.
If you’re ready for a degree that can position you for your next career move, click the button below to get started today!
Admissions
WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH A BS in online sports, entertainment, event – management DEGREE?
Your JWU sports, entertainment, event — management degree positions you for career growth in a number of job fields through a well-rounded background in event management. Graduates of this program have found employment in companies such as:
Kraft Sports Group
Live Nation
Gillette Stadium
Marriott International
In addition, you can explore Lightcast’s Career Coach tool to discover career paths that value your expertise in event management. To learn more about how we collect employment data on our graduates, visit our
Lightcast & Career Coach
page.
Discover Career Coach
Why Johnson & Wales University?
Prepped for the Professional World
We work with industry-leading employers to ensure career-relevant curriculum is at the core of every educational experience we offer. And we pack each program with skill-building opportunities and experience-based learning to help you be career-ready upon graduation.
Personalized Support
We are committed to your success – both academically and professionally. From dedicated academic advisors to career services to tutoring help, we offer one-on-one support throughout your educational journey with us.
Learning on Your Schedule
We help working professionals like you overcome obstacles to learning. That means providing the flexibility of online degree programs as well as a range of student services to provide the tools and support you need to succeed in class and throughout your career.
Backed by Student Approval
Based on a 2024 EdSights survey of CPS students, three out of four students would recommend the College of Professional Studies to a friend. Most notably, CPS achieved a Student Voice Score (SVS) of 65, far surpassing the national private 4-year institution average score of 3. To learn more about our SVS, which measures our students' overall satisfaction with CPS, visit out
EdSights Student Voice Score
page.
“Since starting my classes at JWU, I've found the experience to be more enjoyable than traditional schooling.  While the courses at JWU have provided me with valuable information and insights into the sports industry, they have also been surprisingly enjoyable.”
– Chelsea Delfino, '25
Read the Full Story