URL: https://www.jwu.edu/academics/undergrad-to-grad/index.html

Accelerated Programs
J2
Combined Undergrad/Grad Programs
Articulated Agreements
Grad-Level Coursework
Earn your master’s faster at JWU.
Choose one of four ways to accelerate your transition to graduate studies flexibly and affordably:
J2
JWU’s signature accelerated master’s program lets you get a head start on your advanced studies.
Explore J2
Combined Undergrad/Grad Programs
If you’re sure of your career path and ready to start graduate courses as an undergraduate, JWU’s Combined Degrees programs could save you up to one full year of study and tuition!
Explore JWU’s Combined Undergrad/Grad Programs
Combined Degrees via Articulation Agreements
If you’re a JWU student who qualifies to attend another institution for a specific graduate program, JWU’s partnership with external institutions can help facilitate your next step!
Combined Degrees via Articulation Agreements
Explore Graduate-Level Coursework as an Undergrad
Are you looking to complete graduate-level credits while still an undergrad, but aren’t sure of your career path? This option is a great way to explore taking graduate-level courses for credit.
Discover Graduate-level Coursework for Undergrads
Request
information
Visit
Campus
Providence
Charlotte
Start your
application
Contact us
8 Abbott Park Place, Providence, RI 02903
800-342-5598
A to Z
About
Academics
Academic Calendars
Accreditation
Admissions
Alumni
Apply to JWU
Athletics
Campuses
Career Services
Catalog
Chef's Choice
Compliance
Consumer Information
Employment
Give to JWU
Hire Our Students
International Admissions
jwuLink
JWUpro
Media Center
Mission
POSSIBILITY 2027
Social Directory
Terms of Use
Tuition & Aid
Virtual Tours
Wildcat Gear
Contact Us
© Johnson & Wales University
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Johnson & Wales University (JWU) admits students of or with any age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected category to all the activities, privileges, programs, and rights generally accorded or made available to students at the university. JWU does not discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, ethnic and national origin, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital or parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other legally protected status, in administration of its admissions policies, educational policies, loan and scholarship programs, and athletic or any other school-administered programs. Inquiries regarding the university’s nondiscrimination policies may be directed to the university’s Title IX Coordinator.
Read the university’s full nondiscrimination notice
.