URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/accelerated-bsn-second-degree/

Nursing Second Degree
Accelerated BSN
Quickly develop the professional skills, maturity and confidence required for nursing leadership through hands-on clinical experiences with health care organizations across Southeast Michigan.
If you hold a non-nursing bachelor’s degree, earning a second degree in nursing will allow you to obtain your Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) and prepare for the NCLEX-RN licensure exam. Oakland University’s Accelerated BSN (ABSN) program helps meet the growing demand for leaders in nursing, providing an intensive 15-month pathway to a nursing career. Like all Oakland University nursing programs, our ABSN emphasizes hands-on clinical practice. You’ll work in a wide variety of settings with diverse patient populations, gaining a range of experience that’s broader than other colleges’ nursing programs.
Accredited by the Council on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE), our ABSN program provides a rigorous academic foundation and offers excellent preparation for the NCLEX-RN licensing exam. Students who earn a second degree through our accelerated nursing program have outstanding job placement and graduate school acceptance rates.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
If you hold a non-nursing bachelor’s degree, earning a second degree in nursing will allow you to obtain your Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) and prepare for the NCLEX-RN licensure exam. Oakland University’s Accelerated BSN (ABSN) program helps meet the growing demand for leaders in nursing, providing an intensive 15-month pathway to a nursing career. Like all Oakland University nursing programs, our ABSN emphasizes hands-on clinical practice. You’ll work in a wide variety of settings with diverse patient populations, gaining a range of experience that’s broader than other colleges’ nursing programs.
Accredited by the Council on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE), our ABSN program provides a rigorous academic foundation and offers excellent preparation for the NCLEX-RN licensing exam. Students who earn a second degree through our accelerated nursing program have outstanding job placement and graduate school acceptance rates.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Accelerated BSN Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
While classroom learning is important, it is only one part of our program. Hands-on learning is the other half of the learning equation. Oakland maintains clinical partnerships with health care organizations throughout Southeast Michigan. These connections enable our accelerated BSN students to acquire broad experience very quickly, developing the professional polish, maturity and confidence that nursing leaders require.
In addition to earning a second degree in nursing through our ABSN program, you’ll benefit from:
High-quality field placements.
Clinical experience represents the core strength of our accelerated nursing program. You’ll work throughout Southeast Michigan in hospitals, ERs, nursing homes, schools and many other settings, serving patients from all corners of society. You’ll also interact with professionals from virtually every field of health care, gaining well-rounded career preparation.
A diverse student body.
We welcome bachelor’s degree holders from all backgrounds into our accelerated BSN program. Participants include recent college graduates, military veterans, working adults seeking new career challenges and health care professionals pursuing advanced roles in patient care.
First-rate academics.
As a CCNE-accredited program, our accelerated BSN meets exacting standards for curriculum and content. You’ll work with the most current nursing technology and learn the theory and practice of evidence-based, patient-centered care. Graduates of our accelerated nursing program are high achievers on the NCLEX-RN exam, in the job market and among graduate school applicants.
Outstanding faculty.
You’ll learn from nursing veterans who combine years of clinical practice and research with high academic achievement. Our accelerated BSN faculty teach from firsthand experience, offering professional mentorship and career guidance in addition to textbook instruction.
What can you do with an accelerated BSN Degree?
Registered nurses are in high demand across the country. The American Journal of Medical Quality, the American Association of Colleges of Nursing and the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics all project significant nursing shortages over the next decade. Our accelerated nursing program equips you to move directly into supervisory or management nursing jobs, or to pursue a graduate nursing degree.
Graduates with a second degree in nursing through our accelerated nursing program are strong candidates for nursing positions in:
Community clinics
Emergency rooms
Extended-care facilities
Hospitals
Insurers
Nonprofit health organizations
Nursing homes
Private medical practices
Schools and universities
Surgical centers
Top Courses for ABSN Program Students
Oakland’s accelerated nursing program typically takes four semesters (15 months) to complete. Three semesters include a clinical practice component along with coursework. Lab study and research are also part of the accelerated BSN curriculum.
Courses address a wide range of subjects, including:
Adult nursing
Family nursing
Health assessment
Mental health
Nursing care for children
Nursing leadership
Research methods
Accelerated BSN Program Resources
ABSN program requirements
Registered nurse licensure requirements
Oakland undergraduate nursing programs
Oakland University School of Nursing
Programs Related to the ABSN Program
Not sure if our ABSN program is right for you? Check out these other nursing degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Basic Bachelor of Science in Nursing (Pre-Licensure)
RN to BSN
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

