URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/master-accounting/

Master
Accounting (MAcc)
Advance your career as an accountant with a rigorous Master of Accounting focused on practical experience and professional development.
At the heart of any successful company or organization is a strong team of accounting professionals who provide vital information for decision-making and keeping companies within budget restrictions. And accountants with a CPA license are indispensable assets for individuals saving money and planning their financial futures.
When you earn a Master of Accounting degree from Oakland University, you’ll gain the skills and knowledge to help you stand out from others, both on the job market and on the job. We’ve designed our one-year-long Master of Accounting program for students who want to pursue careers in public, corporate or non-business accounting.
Whether you want to prepare for the CFA exam or work toward earning your CPA license, our Master of Accounting degree will give you the strong foundation to build a rewarding career in finance and accounting in a vast range of industries and fields.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
At the heart of any successful company or organization is a strong team of accounting professionals who provide vital information for decision-making and keeping companies within budget restrictions. And accountants with a CPA license are indispensable assets for individuals saving money and planning their financial futures.
When you earn a Master of Accounting degree from Oakland University, you’ll gain the skills and knowledge to help you stand out from others, both on the job market and on the job. We’ve designed our one-year-long Master of Accounting program for students who want to pursue careers in public, corporate or non-business accounting.
Whether you want to prepare for the CFA exam or work toward earning your CPA license, our Master of Accounting degree will give you the strong foundation to build a rewarding career in finance and accounting in a vast range of industries and fields.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Master of Accounting: The Oakland University Advantage
T
here are so many features that help set us apart from other Master of Accounting programs around the region. From our experienced faculty and our tight-knit family of peers and alumni to our dedication to professional training and
AACSB accreditation
status, our Master of Accounting degree program has everything you need to excel as a professional in the world of accounting.
As a student in the Master of Accounting program, you’ll also enjoy:
An active community:
We know how important making professional networks is for any business professional. That’s why we offer many
student organization
s to help build your community. We also maintain
corporate partnerships
to help fund your education and create lasting connections with professional organizations around the area.
Generous financial aid:
You’ve chosen to dedicate your education to earning your Master of Accounting and preparing for a meaningful career in accounting. And whether you aim to take the CFA exam or earn your CPA license, we are dedicated to helping remove as much financial stress as possible. Thanks to support from alums and partners, the School of Business Administration offers more than
40 scholarships
to assist business students in paying for their education.
Work with expert faculty:
Thanks to our small class sizes and commitment to personalized learning, you’ll get plenty of face-to-face time with our
accounting and finance faculty mentors
. They have decades of experience as professionals and educators, and they bring this experience with them into the classroom to prepare students to earn their CPA license or pass the CFA exam and start a career.
A customized Master of Accounting degree:
The world of accounting offers many unique career pathways, and it can help to narrow down your options to better ensure your continued professional success. As you earn your Master of Accounting degree, you can choose optional concentrations, like assurance or taxation, to target your degree to your career goals.
Hands-on experience:
At the core of our Master of Accounting program are
internships
and professional development. Be prepared to step into your new role or career with confidence thanks to internship opportunities with employers like Deloitte, Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan and Stellantis.
What Can You Do With a Master of Accounting?
In our 12-month-long Master of Accounting program, you’ll enhance your business and finance skills and expand your career opportunities in public, corporate, government or nonprofit accounting. The Master of Accounting curriculum also provides the appropriate number of business and accounting credits for the Uniform Certified Public Accountant Exam and the CPA license exam.
At Oakland University, your success is our success, and that shows in our Master of Accounting alums. On average, 94% of students find employment within three months of graduating, and 82% of our graduates either start working with a new employer, achieve a new title with their current employer or receive a salary increase greater than 10%. In addition, the CPA license exam pass rate for our graduates exceeds the national average for first-time candidates.
According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, accountants with a bachelor’s degree earn an average salary of $78,000. Obtaining a Master of Accounting degree or passing professional examinations such as the CFA exam can greatly increase your salary potential and lead to more career opportunities.
When you graduate with your Master of Accounting from OU, you’ll join an ever-growing community of alums who work at prestigious organizations in Southeastern Michigan and around the country, including:
Deloitte
Ernst & Young
KPMG
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Top Courses for Master of Accounting Students
Our comprehensive Master of Accounting program curriculum covers advanced topics in finance, accounting, auditing, taxation and financial analysis. Students in the Master of Accounting program can immerse themselves in the worlds of accounting and finance even further through exciting elective courses in topics that include real estate, fraud examination and not-for-profit accounting.
Admitted Master of Accounting students must demonstrate proficiency or complete coursework in topics that include introductory- and intermediate-level accounting and managerial skills.
As a student in the Master of Accounting degree program, you could enjoy the following classes:
Accounting and Communications
Business Law for Accounting & Finance
Enterprise Risk Management
Financial Analysis and Valuation
Financial Management
International Tax
Master of Accounting Program Resources
Program Requirements
School of Business Administration
Programs Related to the Master of Accounting
Not sure if the Master of Accounting degree is right for you? Check out these other graduate degree programs at Oakland and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Master of Science in Finance
Master of Science in Business Analytics
Master of Business Administration
Master of Business Administration – Online
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

