URL: https://catalog.oakland.edu/preview_program.php?catoid=61&poid=11805&returnto=12919

Dec 18, 2024
2023-2024 Graduate Catalog
Select a Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog
2024-2025 Graduate Catalog
2023-2024 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog
2023-2024 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2023 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2021 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2019 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2017 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-2014 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-2014 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2011-2012 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2011-2012 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2010-2011 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-21 Syllabus [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-19 Syllabus [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-18 Syllabus [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-20 Syllabus [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Colleges and Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Addendum to the 2021- 2023 Graduate Catalog
Online Catalog User Guide
Archived catalogs
Degree Programs and Graduate Certificates
Online Programs
Combined Bachelor/Graduate Degree Programs
Graduate Admission Requirements
Admission terms and application deadlines
Graduate Course Descriptions
Oakland University
University Information
Graduate School at Oakland University
Academic Departments
College of Arts and Sciences
School of Music, Theatre and Dance
School of Business Administration
School of Education and Human Services
School of Engineering and Computer Science
School of Health Sciences
School of Nursing
University Libraries
Oakland University William Beaumont School of Medicine
Graduate/University Policies
Graduate Academic Advising
Student Responsibility
Student Code Of Conduct
Office of Research Administration
Office of the Registrar
Student Financial Services
International Students and Scholars
Student Services and Centers
Calendars and Deadlines
Graduate Assistantships, Scholarships and Fellowships
Graduation and Commencement
Doctoral Dissertations and Abstracts Archive
Campus Map
My Portfolio
HELP
2023-2024 Graduate Catalog
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Adult Gerontological Nurse Practitioner Acute Care, Post-Master’s Graduate Certificate
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
Return to:
Degree Programs and Graduate Certificates
School of Nursing
3008 Human Health Building
(map)
(248) 370-4253 • Fax (248) 364-8740
www.oakland.edu/nursing
►
Apply Online
►
Class Schedule Search
►
Graduate Catalog Addendum
Program Director:
Carolyn Tieppo
2042 Human Health Building
(248) 364-8714
cktieppo@oakland.edu
Program description
Required coursework is based upon a gap analysis that compares prior MSN didactic and clinical experience with the AG-AC national certification requirements to determine the courses for the plan of study.
The Adult Gerontological-Acute Care (AG-AC) Post-Master’s Certificate Program prepares the students to be leaders in health care. The curriculum focuses on holistic patient care in the management of episodic and complex health issues in critically ill adolescents, young adults, adults, and older/aging adults.  Attention is given to clinical experiences in acute care/inpatient settings.  Oakland University’s Nurse Practitioner Program is proud to educate students with experienced nurse practitioner faculty and students have opportunities for involvement with many organizations on campus, including the Michigan Council of Nurse Practitioners - Oakland Chapter.  Oakland University School of Nursing is accredited through CCNE.  Upon completion of all program requirements, graduates are prepared for certification through ANCC or AACN.
Admission to the AG-AC track at Oakland University occurs once a year, during the Fall semester.  Admission to the program is highly competitive and priority is given to students who submit all materials by the deadline. Our desired applicants are self-directed learners, demonstrate superior communication and interpersonal skills, and have strong critical thinking skills. Qualified applicants will be selected for an interview with current Oakland University School of Nursing faculty.
Admission terms and application deadlines
Before an applicant’s file can be reviewed for full program admission, all application documents must be received in
NursingCAS
by the deadline listed below. Incomplete applications will not be sent to departments for admission review.
All applicants to this program are admitted for the fall semester only
. The application deadlines are:
January 15 for early admission and March 15 for standard admission to the following Fall semester
August 15 for admission for early admission and September 15 for standard admission to the following Winter semester
International students: May 1 for admission to the following Fall semester and September 1 for following Winter semester (see additional requirements below)
Application requirements
To be considered for graduate admission, applicants must submit all Graduate Application Requirements
and
additional department requirements by the published application deadlines.
Applicants do not submit an online Oakland University Graduate Application
.  A completed application and required materials must be submitted through the
Nursing Centralized Application Service
(NursingCAS).
To be considered for graduate admission, applicants must submit all Graduate Application Requirements
and
additional department requirements by the published application deadlines.
Additional department application requirements
• Applicants for admission to the Master of Science in Nursing program must have completed a Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree with an overall undergraduate cumulative grade point average of B (3.0) or above from an institution accredited by the National League for Nursing or the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education.
• Applicants must submit all transcripts from previously attended institutions.
• Proof of a current unrestricted Registered Nurse license in the United States or its territories.
• Unrestricted R.N license to practice in Michigan.
• Two (2) letters of recommendations are required and must be completed by healthcare professionals in nursing, leadership, administration/management, or education who can attest to the applicant’s work and/or educational experience, as well as the applicant’s potential for graduate study.
Professional statement of 750 words or less. The professional statement should focus on the consensus model within the APRN scope of practice, the applicant’s career goals after completion of the program, how recent clinical experiences have prepared them for an advanced practice role, and plans for professional development.
International Students
International students are encouraged to contact The Graduate School (
www.oakland.edu/grad
) to determine what additional documentation is required for admission eligibility.
Admission review and assessment
Admission to graduate school at Oakland University is selective. In making admission recommendations to Oakland University Graduate School, each department assesses the potential of applicants for success in the program by examining their undergraduate records, professional statement, letters of recommendation, prerequisite courses and any other admission requirements established by the academic department.
Qualified applicants will be selected for an individual interview with a School of Nursing faculty. The interview will be scheduled after all application materials have been submitted.
Related links
Readmission (not enrolled for two years)
Transferring to Oakland University
Transferring to a new program
Post Master’s APRN Certificate Requirements
A gap analysis of prior didactic coursework and clinical experiences from an applicant’s master’s degree program will be completed to determine coursework required for the post-master’s APRN AGACNP certificate. The gap analysis will identify Foundation, Clinical Core, and Specialty course content necessary to prepare students to be eligible to sit for a national certification exam that corresponds with the role and population focus of the AGACNP track. Additional clinical hours may be necessary to meet the 500  minimum required for AGACNP certification. Students completing all required courses based on the gap analysis will earn a post-masters certificate in Adult Gerontological Acute Care NP.  Based on the gap analysis courses for the student’s plan of study (POS) will be selected from the following list of Foundation, Clinical Core, and Specialty courses.
The PM APRN Certificate, AGACNP is awarded upon satisfactory completion of a minimum of 15 credits in an approved plan of study. It is typical for PMC students to complete all of the courses listed under the
Specialty Courses
category below.
Course requirements
a. Foundation Course Requirements (10 credits)
Foundation courses address critical content needed by all graduate nursing students.
NRS 5312 - Theory and Transitional Research for Advanced Nursing Practice
(4 credits)
NRS 5322 - Nursing Scholarship and Dissemination
(1 credit)
NRS 5241 - Systems Leadership and Health Policy for Advanced Nursing Practice
(3 credits)
NRS 6398 - Graduate Project
(2 credits)
b. Clinical Core Courses (11 credits)
The clinical core courses provide graduate students with advanced clinical knowledge and skills and are based on population foci.
NRS 6411 - Advanced Pathophysiology Across the Lifespan
(3 credits)
NRS 6421 - Advanced Health Assessment Across the Lifespan
(4 credits)
NRS 6441 - Advanced Pharmacology Across the Lifespan
(4 credits)
c. Specialty Courses (28 credits)
Specialty courses consist of didactic and clinical courses that prepare students for advanced practice nursing. The specialty courses build upon nursing knowledge and skills learned at the undergraduate level and graduate foundation and clinical core courses and are based on population foci.
NRS 5251 - Inter-professional Role Development Leadership and Ethics in Advanced Nursing Practice
(3 credits)
NRS 6627 - Advanced Concepts in Gerontology
(3 credits)
NRS 6734 - Nurse Practitioner Diagnostic Testing and Procedures in the Acute Care Setting
(2 credits)
NRS 6737 - Adult and Gerontology Nurse Practitioner Clinical concepts in Acute Care I
(6 credits)
NRS 6742 - Professional Seminar II (1 credit)
NRS 6747 - Adult and Gerontology Nurse Practitioner Clinical Concepts in Acute Care II
(6 credits)
NRS 6767 - Adult and Gerontology Nurse Practitioner Clinical Concepts in Acute Care III
(7 credits)
Satisfactory academic progress
Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) is the term used to denote a student’s successful completion of coursework toward a certificate or degree. Federal regulations require the Office of Financial Aid to monitor Satisfactory Academic Progress for all financial aid recipients each semester.
Students who fall behind in their coursework, or fail to achieve minimum standards for grade point average and completion of classes, may lose their eligibility for all types of federal, state and university aid. Contact the
Office of Financial Aid
for additional details.
Good academic standing
All graduate students are expected to remain in
good academic standing
throughout the entire course of their graduate program.
To be in good academic standing, a graduate student must make satisfactory progress toward fulfilling degree requirements, including the completion of critical degree milestones as set forth by the academic program. The student must also maintain a minimum semester and overall GPA of B (3.0).
Good academic standing is a requirement for:
Holding a Graduate Assistantship
Receiving a fellowship or scholarship
Advancing to candidacy for a graduate degree
Going on a leave of absence
Obtaining a graduate certificate or degree from Oakland University.
Additionally, graduate students must meet all department academic standards which may be more stringent than the minimum set forth by the University.
Program requirements
:   Students are required to follow the university policies and procedures for graduate students, as described in the Oakland University Graduate Catalog. In addition to the university requirements, specific School of Nursing policies and procedures are outlined in the School of Nursing Graduate Student Handbook.
Students are expected to earn a grade of B (3.0) or above in each course in the PM APRN Certificate program. In courses graded Satisfactory/ Unsatisfactory (S/U), students are expected to earn a course grade of satisfactory. Students who are not making satisfactory progress in the program may be placed on probation with conditions imposed for retention in the program or may be recommended for dismissal from the program.
Students are required to keep health requirements current and must maintain an RN license that is current and free of any complaint or restriction throughout the program.  See the
School of Nursing
Website for health requirements. Students are also required to meet any requirements of the healthcare facilities where they have clinical learning experiences.
Graduate students who are not in good academic standing for any reason are subject to probation and/or dismissal from further graduate study.
Related program information
Plan of study
All accepted applicants, in consultation with their assigned NP Program Director, must develop a plan of study that details specific courses the students will use to satisfy their degree requirements The plan of study must be signed by the NP Director and the student.
Note:  Credit granted for successful completion of a course toward an undergraduate degree program may not be repeated for a graduate degree. If a substitution is approved, the minimum number of program-approved graduate credits will be required. A
Petition of Exception - OU Course Waiver/ Substitution
requesting the substitution must be approved.
Advising
Students are responsible for requirements and policies stated in the School of Nursing Graduate Student Handbook and in each course syllabus. Every student admitted to the MSN program is assigned an academic adviser and program director who are available to discuss coursework, plans of study, concerns regarding progression in the program, and student career goals.
Return to:
Degree Programs and Graduate Certificates
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)

