URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/adult-gerontological-primary-care-nurse-practition/

ADULT GERONTOLOGICAL PRIMARY CARE NURSE PRACTITIONER TRACK
Become a leader in health care focusing on holistic patient care in the management of routine, episodic and complex health issues.
As generations continue to live longer and stay active later in life, there is an increasing need for skilled, empathetic primary care nurses who can help them stay safe and healthy. Oakland University’s Adult Gerontological Nurse Practitioner Track within the Master of Science in Nursing program will prepare you to work with these patients, as well as adolescents, young adults and adults.
Nursing majors in the adult gerontology track enjoy an expertly crafted combination of theoretical knowledge and practical skills that covers a wide range of topics in health care throughout the lifespan. With courses on leadership techniques and scholarship, our nursing students are also prepared for managerial and research roles throughout health care.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
As generations continue to live longer and stay active later in life, there is an increasing need for skilled, empathetic primary care nurses who can help them stay safe and healthy. Oakland University’s Adult Gerontological Nurse Practitioner Track within the Master of Science in Nursing program will prepare you to work with these patients, as well as adolescents, young adults and adults.
Nursing majors in the adult gerontology track enjoy an expertly crafted combination of theoretical knowledge and practical skills that covers a wide range of topics in health care throughout the lifespan. With courses on leadership techniques and scholarship, our nursing students are also prepared for managerial and research roles throughout health care.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Adult Gerontology Nurse Practitioner Track: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland University’s adult gerontology track in the Master of Science in Nursing program provides nursing students with exceptional educational experiences that help them grow their skill sets and increase their career potential. As a nursing major at OU, you’ll benefit from the guidance of our expert faculty mentors, our rigorous curriculum and our close-knit community.
When you join the adult gerontology track in our nurse practitioner program, you also enjoy:
A thriving community:
Nursing majors in our adult gerontology nurse practitioner track have many opportunities to participate in organizations around campus, including the Michigan Council of Nurse Practitioners – Oakland Chapter.
A nationally renowned reputation:
Oakland University’s School of Nursing is accredited through the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE). This means that as a primary care nurse, you’ll be recognized for reaching the highest standards for academic and professional excellence set by the CCNE.
Professional preparedness:
When nursing students complete program requirements for our nurse practitioner track, they’ll be prepared for certification through the American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC) or American Association of Nurse Practitioners (AANP). These credentials are essential for becoming a primary care nurse and working with patients.
Individual academic attention:
We prioritize small class sizes and personalized instruction so that you’ll have many chances for face-to-face interactions with our nursing faculty. They bring their years of experience as primary care nurse professionals and educators into the classroom to ensure you’re ready to excel in health care and beyond.
What Can You Do With an Adult Gerontology Nurse Practitioner Master of Science?
Earning a Master of Science in Nursing can open career pathways throughout the health care system, including advanced primary care nurse roles and positions in academia. Specializing in adult gerontology as a nursing major can increase your career prospects even further by providing you with specific skills that can set you apart from other primary care nurses.
When you graduate from our nurse practitioner track with a concentration in adult gerontology, you could qualify for many rewarding careers, including:
Adult gerontology occupational therapist
Adult gerontology nurse practitioner
Clinical nurse specialist in adult gerontology
Geriatric physician assistant
Geriatric social worker
Research assistant in gerontology
Top Courses for Adult Gerontology Nursing Majors
Our Master of Science in Nursing Adult Gerontology track curriculum includes courses on advanced topics within primary care nursing, such as scholarship, theory and research methods. Nursing majors immerse themselves in health promotion and assessment throughout the lifespan, in addition to learning about leadership and ethics in nursing.
Applicants to our adult gerontology nurse practitioner track must hold a Bachelor of Science in Nursing from an accredited institution and have proof of a current unrestricted Registered Nurse license in the United States, as well as in Michigan. Qualified applicants will be interviewed by Oakland University School of Nursing faculty.
As a nursing student in our adult gerontology track, you can take courses covering diverse topics, such as:
Advanced Nursing Care Acute Health Conditions
Advanced Pathophysiology Across the Lifespan
Interprofessional Role Development, Leadership and Ethics in Advanced Nursing Practice
Theory and Translation Research for Advanced Nursing Practice
Adult Gerontology Nurse Practitioner Track Resources
Nurse practitioner track requirements
Admissions requirements
School of Nursing
Programs Related to the Adult Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Track
Not sure if the adult gerontology concentration is right for you? Check out these other graduate nursing programs and concentrations at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Family Nurse Practitioner Track
Forensic Nursing
Master of Science in Nursing: Clinical Nurse Leader
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

