URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/msw-advanced-standing/

Master of Social Work
Advanced Standing Program
Gain the skills and expertise to meet the growing demand for social work professionals
Designed for graduate students who already hold an undergraduate social work degree, Oakland University’s Advanced Practice Master of Social Work offers an accelerated pathway to high-impact social work careers. Our advanced practice MSW degree is the only program in southeast Michigan that employs an integrated “advanced generalist” model, merging macro social work concepts with a clinical, practice-oriented approach. Because of this unique training, Oakland’s advanced master of social work degree equips you to work toward social change that benefits vulnerable or marginalized populations. You can complete the advanced practice MSW program in one year as a full-time student, or longer on a part-time schedule. We also offer a
traditional MSW degree
for students who don’t hold an undergraduate degree in social work.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Designed for graduate students who already hold an undergraduate social work degree, Oakland University’s Advanced Practice Master of Social Work offers an accelerated pathway to high-impact social work careers. Our advanced practice MSW degree is the only program in southeast Michigan that employs an integrated “advanced generalist” model, merging macro social work concepts with a clinical, practice-oriented approach. Because of this unique training, Oakland’s advanced master of social work degree equips you to work toward social change that benefits vulnerable or marginalized populations. You can complete the advanced practice MSW program in one year as a full-time student, or longer on a part-time schedule. We also offer a
traditional MSW degree
for students who don’t hold an undergraduate degree in social work.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
MSW Degree Advanced Practice: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland developed the advanced practice MSW program to help meet the needs of social work agencies in southeastern Michigan. The region’s economic and social trends have created high demand for highly trained social workers with advanced expertise, leadership skills, research ability, and an understanding of public policy.
Our advanced practice master of social work degree offers:
Extensive field training.
The advanced practice MSW degree includes more than 400 hours of practicum experience. You’ll perform social work in a professional setting, with supervised guidance from one of Oakland’s community partners.
High academic standards.
With accreditation from the Council on Social Work Education, our advanced practice MSW degree meets the most rigorous standards. The program includes optional specializations in community/organizational leadership, school social work, and integrated health.
Emphasis on social justice.
You’ll acquire a practical toolkit for social change in our MSW program, mastering tools that equip you to intervene on behalf of vulnerable, marginalized populations.
Expert, engaged faculty.
Our advanced practice master of social work degree was developed and is led by nationally recognized scholars and social work practitioners. You’ll build close relationships with faculty, who offer not only academic expertise but also personal mentorship and career support.
Flexible formats.
You can earn the advanced practice MSW degree on either a full-time or part-time basis. If you don’t qualify for the advanced practice program, you can earn a traditional MSW degree from Oakland University.
What Can You Do With an Advanced Practice MSW Degree ?
The number of jobs for social workers is expected to grow by 13 percent between now and 2029, according to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics. Demand is projected to be especially high in specialties such as child, family, and school social work, mental health, and substance abuse.
Because Oakland University’s social work programs are so well known in southeast Michigan, graduates of our accelerated MSW program enter the job market with high credibility and strong interest from employers. You’ll be qualified for social work jobs in many different fields, including:
Health care
Public health
Education
Mental health
Corrections
Substance abuse
Housing
Family services
Advanced Practice Master of Social Work Curriculum
To be eligible for the advanced practice Master of Social Work degree, you must have a Bachelor of Social Work from an accredited institution. A minimum 3.25 GPA in BSW coursework is required.
If you qualify, you’ll complete 34 credits of graduate coursework to earn the advanced practice MSW degree. That total includes 20 credits of core coursework and 8 practicum credits totaling more than 450 hours of field experience. You also can opt to specialize in one of three subdisciplines:
Integrated health
Community and organizational leadership
School social work
Advanced Practice MSW Program Resources
Academic Requirements
Department of Sociology, Anthropology, Social Work and Criminal Justice
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Advanced Practice Master of Social Work
Not sure if the Advanced Practice Master of Social Work is right for you? Check out these other graduate degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Masters of Counseling
Masters of Public Health
Masters of Public Administration
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

