URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/bachelor-science-applied-statistics/

Bachelor of Science
Applied Statistics
Get ready to conquer the business world with a Bachelor of Science in Applied Statistics from Oakland University.
From corporate investing and government policy to community outreach and pharmaceutical services, organizations around the globe depend on accurate data and statistics to continue to run efficiently and provide the highest quality services possible. Not only do these organizations need experts who can collect and organize data, but they also require creative statisticians who can turn that data into actionable insights.
Earning a Bachelor of Science in Applied Statistics from Oakland University will provide you with the strong foundation in mathematics and statistics needed for rewarding statistics and data careers in any industry. If you’re like many prospective students, you may be asking, “What is applied statistics?” Put briefly, applied statistics includes planning for the collection of data, managing that data, and then interpreting and drawing conclusions that help executives, R&D departments and other researchers make large-scale decisions.
It’s important to consider the practical side of math degrees when thinking about applied statistics vs. statistics. Whereas statistics is usually dedicated solely to the collection and management of data, applied statisticians turn that data into stories that can help a company grow. That’s why OU offers statistical mathematics degrees that include critical thinking and communication skills.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
From corporate investing and government policy to community outreach and pharmaceutical services, organizations around the globe depend on accurate data and statistics to continue to run efficiently and provide the highest quality services possible. Not only do these organizations need experts who can collect and organize data, but they also require creative statisticians who can turn that data into actionable insights.
Earning a Bachelor of Science in Applied Statistics from Oakland University will provide you with the strong foundation in mathematics and statistics needed for rewarding statistics and data careers in any industry. If you’re like many prospective students, you may be asking, “What is applied statistics?” Put briefly, applied statistics includes planning for the collection of data, managing that data, and then interpreting and drawing conclusions that help executives, R&D departments and other researchers make large-scale decisions.
It’s important to consider the practical side of math degrees when thinking about applied statistics vs. statistics. Whereas statistics is usually dedicated solely to the collection and management of data, applied statisticians turn that data into stories that can help a company grow. That’s why OU offers statistical mathematics degrees that include critical thinking and communication skills.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Bachelor of Science in Applied Statistics: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland University’s applied statistics degree is one of the few undergraduate statistical math degrees in the country. By joining one of the only Bachelor of Science in Applied Statistics programs, you are investing in your future and giving yourself a major advantage over other job candidates without the specialized training you’ll receive here. Our curriculum goes beyond statistics to make you a well-rounded candidate who understands and appreciates the subtle differences between applied statistics vs. statistics.
There are many great features of our Bachelor of Science in Applied Statistics program that you can enjoy while you earn your degree:
A broad curriculum:
As you earn your applied statistics degree, not only will you gain expertise in statistics and data, but you’ll also dive into topics such as computer science, ethics and advanced writing. Having additional skills in these topics will make you a more creative and critical problem-solver who can think outside the box and turn dry data into stories that matter to multiple audiences.
A tailored applied statistics degree:
What is applied statistics without the ability to contextualize data in real-world situations that are relevant to you? Your Bachelor of Science in Applied Statistics program includes four courses outside the Department of Mathematics and Statistics to which statistics could be applied. This allows you not only to explore topics that interest you, but also to see the importance of applied statistics vs. statistics outside the world of data.
Expert faculty guidance:
We intentionally keep our applied statistics degree courses as small as possible to ensure that you have meaningful face-to-face interactions with faculty mentors who are dedicated to preparing you for professional life. Applied statistics and mathematics degree faculty mentors are active researchers in subjects including mathematical modeling of biological systems, classical functional analysis and scientific computing. They pull from their decades of experience to help you answer that question, “What is applied statistics and what can I do with it?”
What Can You Do With an Applied Statistics Degree?
When you earn a Bachelor of Science in Applied Statistics from OU, you can enjoy the freedom and flexibility to work in nearly any industry that interests you while earning an impressive salary and benefitting from exceptional job security. U.S. News & World Report
lists data scientist at the eighth best job in the country, and statistician as the twelfth best — thanks in large part to the broad availability of jobs around the world. This means that by earning an applied statistics degree, you can enjoy better job quality than if you were to earn a mathematics degree without a focus on applied statistics.
If you want to set yourself apart even further from other candidates with a math degree, you can join one of our student-run organizations, which include the Mathematical Student Society and the Society of Actuarial Science. See firsthand the practical use of applied statistics vs. statistics while networking with your peers.
According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, mathematicians and statisticians can expect employment growth of up to 30% by 2032, about quadruple the national average for other occupations. Whether you want to work for the government, a private corporation or a nonprofit, you’ll have an excellent job outlook.
If you are interested in continuing your education in a graduate program, our Bachelor of Science in Applied Statistics program will give you a strong foundation in statics and mathematics, computer science, ethics, writing and communication. These skills will help you succeed in an advanced graduate program.
Some of the careers you could pursue with a Bachelor of Science in Applied Statistics include:
Data scientist
Actuarial
Statistician
Financial analyst
Business intelligence analyst
Biostatistician
Data analyst
Data engineer
Researcher
Educator
Sports analyst
Top Courses for Applied Statistics Majors
One of the most defining features of our degree in applied science vs. statistics programs from other universities is our commitment to providing a wide-reaching curriculum that pulls from many disciplines and departments to help you excel as a statistician in many industries.
You may be wondering, “What is applied statistics curricula like?” At OU, earning a Bachelor of Science in Applied Statistics means immersing yourself in the worlds of mathematics, operations research, computer programming, public writing and professional communication. With these courses, you’ll learn how to apply the data you gather to actual professional situations and to explain complex statistics to individuals ranging from executives to product design experts.
Here are a few of the exciting courses you can take as you earn your Bachelor of Science in Applied Statistics at OU:
Applied Probability and Statistics
Multivariable Calculus
Applied Matrix Theory
Elementary Models in Operations Research
Computer Problem Solving in Engineering and Computer Science
Bachelor of Science in Applied Statistics Program Resources
Major Requirements
Minor requirements
Department of Mathematics and Statistics
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Bachelor of Science in Applied Statistics
Not sure if the applied statistics degree is right for you? Check out these other mathematics degree programs at Oakland and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Bachelor of Arts in Mathematics
Bachelor of Science in Mathematics
Secondary Teacher Education in Mathematics
Current Applied Statistics Internships
Quality Analytics Intern - Spring 2025 at Bosch
2025 Summer Internship Program: Intern, Portfolio Management Group at Hamilton Lane
Research and Data Analyst Internship - Summer at OneHope
Spring Internship (Jan-May 2025) Product Data Analyst, Industrial Energy Products at Tesla
Actuary at U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM)
Biostatistics Intern at Boehringer Ingelheim Corporation
Tallgrass | Intern-Commercial-Natural Gas at Blackstone LaunchPad
Industrial Metaverse Intern at Nokia
Oliver Wyman - Summer Analyst 2025 - Financial Services Quantitative Analytics at Oliver Wyman
Actuarial Intern at Warrior Insurance Network
Intern - Retirement Plans Analyst at Edelman Financial Engines
Bell Labs Autonomous Systems Intern at Nokia
AI Solution Engineering Intern at Nokia
Bell Labs Machine Learning and AI Intern at Nokia
Sports Analytics Intern at Tokio Marine HCC
2025 Summer Intern: Technical Product Internship at Haleon
Impact ESG Analyst Intern at McKesson
Data Automation Remote Intern  at Language & Culture Worldwide, LLC (LCW)
Intern - Manufacturing Data Analyst - Plant 10 at Howmet Aerospace Inc.
Data Science Summer Intern 2025 at Bath & Body Works
Summer 2025 Intern: Senior Analyst, Transportation at Walmart & Sam's Club
Data Science Summer 2025 Internship at Allianz Life
Analytics Engineer Internship at Farmers Insurance Corporate Careers
Data Science Internship at Farmers Insurance Corporate Careers
2025 Summer Intern - Data Science - Shanghai at The Trade Desk
2025 Summer Intern - Client Solutions & Analytics Analyst, US at PIMCO
2025 Summer Intern - Trade Support Analyst at PIMCO
2025 Summer Research Training Program in Biomedical Big Data Science at Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai
2025 Summer Intern - Actuarial at Equitable
Informatics Internship/Co-Op - Spring 2025 at Medpace, Inc.
Hydrogen Hub at Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education
Business Intelligence Intern at Kalsec, Inc.
Summer 2025 Internship, Enterprise Data Management at Under Armour
Strategic Analytics Internship at Perpay
Business Analytics Consultant - Intern 2025 at Plante Moran
Marketing Science Analyst Internship at Analytic Partners
Early Careers: Actuarial Delivery Group Internship (University) – Detroit – 2025 at WTW
Early Careers: Actuarial Delivery Group Internship (University) – Dallas – 2025 at WTW
Early Careers: Investment Internship – New York – Summer 2025 at WTW
Early Careers: Investment Internship – Chicago – Summer 2025 at WTW
Early Careers: Investment Internship – Pittsburgh – Summer 2025 at WTW
Early Careers: Health and Benefits Internship – West – Summer 2025 at WTW
Early Careers: Health and Benefits Internship – Midwest – Summer 2025 at WTW
Early Careers: Health and Benefits Internship – Southeast – Summer 2025 at WTW
Early Careers: Health and Benefits Internship – Northeast – Summer 2025 at WTW
Intern - Data Science at American AgCredit
Marketing Science Analyst Internship at Analytic Partners
Marketing Science Analyst Internship at Analytic Partners
Marketing Science Analyst Internship at Analytic Partners
2025 Summer Internship at EDF Energy North America
Analytics Intern at National Life Group
Data Governance Intern at National Life Group
Actuarial Intern at National Life Group
Summer 2025 Internships - Business Majors at Orange & Rockland Utilities, Inc.
Data Science Part-Time Student (Spring and Summer 2025) at Wellmark Blue Cross and Blue Shield
Data Scientist Intern at ADM
Early Careers: Pension Outsourcing Benefits Internship – Summer 2025 – Denver at WTW
Data Science Internship at Komatsu
Manufacturing Finance Intern at Post Consumer Brands
Commercial Finance Intern at Post Consumer Brands
Internships in Data Science - Summer 2025 at NXP Semiconductors
AI-based Electric Demand Forecasting Internship at ISO New England, Inc.
Operations Analyst Intern at ISO New England, Inc.
Machine Learning Intern at ISO New England, Inc.
Actuarial Internship (Summer 2025) at Transamerica
Demand Planning Intern, Hair – Summer 2025 at Henkel
Early Careers: Retirement Actuarial Internship – West- Summer 2025 at WTW
Early Careers: Retirement Actuarial Internship – Southeast – Summer 2025 at WTW
Early Careers: Retirement Actuarial Internship – Midwest – Summer 2025 at WTW
Data Science Internship (Masters) at Procter & Gamble (P&G)
Data Science Intern at Seed Oil Scout
2025 Launch Program: Business Analyst Intern at Red Ventures
Actuarial Intern at Chubb
Actuarial Intern at Horace Mann
Data Analyst Intern at International Paper
Early Careers: Actuarial Intern at Aon
2025 Engineering Summer Analyst Program at Goldman Sachs
Statistics Data Science SEO Intern at Assuaged Foundation, Inc.
Clinical Data Analyst at Clinpharma Clinical Research, LLC
Digital Innovation Internship for PhD Scientists at Dow
Application Portfolio Management (APM) Implementation Project at Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education
Machine Learning - Internship  at Jelloow
+ Show More
- Show Less
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

