URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/master-applied-statistics/

Master of Science
Applied Statistics
Take your passion for modern statistical methods to the next level and become an industry leader with an applied statistics master's degree.
With an MS in Applied Statistics from Oakland University, you'll gain hands-on experience in data analysis that helps you stand out from the competition, expanding your credentials and your career opportunities. Our statistics master's program offers a strong foundation in modern statistical methods that you can use immediately in conventional (and non-conventional) applied statistics jobs, or build upon as you pursue a Ph.D in applied statistics. Your knowledge will shine in industrial, commercial, and government settings, as our statistics master's degree equips you with practical knowledge to solve real-world problems and increase efficiencies. Graduates with an applied statistics master's degree from Oakland go on to serve as industry leaders in Michigan and around the world.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
With an MS in Applied Statistics from Oakland University, you'll gain hands-on experience in data analysis that helps you stand out from the competition, expanding your credentials and your career opportunities. Our statistics master's program offers a strong foundation in modern statistical methods that you can use immediately in conventional (and non-conventional) applied statistics jobs, or build upon as you pursue a Ph.D in applied statistics. Your knowledge will shine in industrial, commercial, and government settings, as our statistics master's degree equips you with practical knowledge to solve real-world problems and increase efficiencies. Graduates with an applied statistics master's degree from Oakland go on to serve as industry leaders in Michigan and around the world.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
MS Applied Statistics Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
As a well-established program, OU's applied statistics master's degree offers convenient hybrid course options to fit your busy lifestyle. Students enjoy small class sizes and may complete the traditional statistics master's track or take a biostatistics concentration, opening even more options for career advancement and mobility.
Our applied statistics master's degree offers:
Expert faculty with esteemed appointments.
Your professors in applied statistics courses are leading experts in industry and prominent research centers, such as OU's Center for Data Science and Big Data Analytics. They bring real-world know-how right to your classroom, so you learn directly from applied statistics experts.
Hands-on learning.
Oakland's statistics master's program dives deep into data analysis by using industry-best software like SAS and R. By using these programs and programming languages in our applied statistics courses, you'll get hands-on experience to advance your career with an enhanced skillset.
A location that can't be beat.
Situated in the heart of Automation Alley, OU is the perfect place to advance your career in applied statistics. You can leverage unmatched job opportunities at corporations such as General Motors, Rocket Mortgage, DTE Energy, and Henry Ford Health System.
Convenience for working professionals.
When you pursue our MS in Applied Statistics, you have the flexibility to schedule courses around your work schedule. Classes are offered on campus and online, and the entire statistics master's program can be completed in two years.
A supportive environment to challenge yourself—and others.
Join your fellow math master's degree students for educational talks, study groups, and career discussions in OU's Mathematics Student Society, an active student organization where you can network with fellow students in applied statistics.
What Can You Do With a Statistics Master's Degree?
Our MS in Applied Statistics will prepare you to use statistical methodology in virtually any career setting. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, graduates with an applied statistics master's degree earn a median annual salary of $92,280, in positions like:
Biostatistician
Business intelligence analyst
Data scientist
Financial analyst
Operation research analyst
Sports analyst
Applied Statistics Master's Degree Curriculum
To be eligible for a statistics master's degree, you must have a bachelor's degree from an accredited institution with a minimum 3.0 GPA. Your previous mathematical training should include courses in multivariable calculus, linear algebra and at least one introductory course in statistics.
If you qualify for admission, you'll complete 32 credits of graduate coursework to earn an MS in Applied Statistics. The program includes an applied statistics capstone project to demonstrate your understanding of applying statistical methods and theory as solutions to problems.
Course requirements for Oakland's applied statistics master's include:
Applied Linear Models
Clinical Trials and Ethics in Biomedical Sciences
Introduction to Mathematical Statistics
Longitudinal Data Analysis
Reliability and Life Data Analysis
Applied Statistics Master's Program Resources
Degree Requirements
Department of Mathematics and Statistics
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Applied Statistics Master's Degree
Not sure if a statistics master's degree is right for you? Check out these other graduate degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
MS in Industrial Applied Mathematics
MA in Mathematics
MS in Business Analytics
Graduate Certificate in Statistical Methods
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

