URL: https://catalog.oakland.edu/preview_program.php?catoid=61&poid=11828&returnto=12919

Dec 18, 2024
2023-2024 Graduate Catalog
Select a Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog
2024-2025 Graduate Catalog
2023-2024 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog
2023-2024 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2023 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2021 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2019 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2017 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-2014 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-2014 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2011-2012 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2011-2012 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2010-2011 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-21 Syllabus [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-19 Syllabus [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-18 Syllabus [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-20 Syllabus [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Colleges and Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Addendum to the 2021- 2023 Graduate Catalog
Online Catalog User Guide
Archived catalogs
Degree Programs and Graduate Certificates
Online Programs
Combined Bachelor/Graduate Degree Programs
Graduate Admission Requirements
Admission terms and application deadlines
Graduate Course Descriptions
Oakland University
University Information
Graduate School at Oakland University
Academic Departments
College of Arts and Sciences
School of Music, Theatre and Dance
School of Business Administration
School of Education and Human Services
School of Engineering and Computer Science
School of Health Sciences
School of Nursing
University Libraries
Oakland University William Beaumont School of Medicine
Graduate/University Policies
Graduate Academic Advising
Student Responsibility
Student Code Of Conduct
Office of Research Administration
Office of the Registrar
Student Financial Services
International Students and Scholars
Student Services and Centers
Calendars and Deadlines
Graduate Assistantships, Scholarships and Fellowships
Graduation and Commencement
Doctoral Dissertations and Abstracts Archive
Campus Map
My Portfolio
HELP
2023-2024 Graduate Catalog
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Applied Behavior Analysis: Basic, Graduate Certificate
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
Return to:
Degree Programs and Graduate Certificates
Department of Human Development and Child Studies
405B Pawley Hall
(map)
(248) 370-3077 • Fax (248) 370-4242
http://www.oakland.edu/sehs/hdc
s
/
►
Apply Online
►
Class Schedule Search
►
Graduate Catalog Addendum
Coordinator:
Erica Ruegg
425F Pawley Hall
(248) 370-2894
ruegg@oakland.edu
Program description
The Graduate Certificate in Applied Behavior Analysis: Basic (21 credits) and the area of concentration within the corresponding degree program, meet the coursework requirements of the Behavior Analysts Certification Board (BACB), one of the components leading to the Board Certified Behavior Analyst (BCBA) credential. The course sequence has been approved under both the current and the new BACB standards, effective January 2016.
Admission terms and application deadlines
Before an applicant’s file can be reviewed for full program admission, all application documents must be received in Oakland University Graduate School by the semester deadlines listed below. Incomplete applications will not be sent to departments for admission review. Applicant must complete an interview as part of the application process, which takes place in the winter semester PRIOR to the start of the fall semester for which the student is applying.
April 15 for following year
International applicants
Note: Applicants for the Graduate Certificate in Applied Behavior Analysis should contact the Special Education Coordinator Dr. Michael Kranak (
kranak@oakland.edu
) for additional information.
Application requirements
To be considered for graduate admission, applicants must submit all Graduate Application Requirements
and
additional department application requirements by the published application deadlines.
Graduate Application Requirements
Additional department application requirements
A copy of any professional credentials, such as state or professional license.
A personal statement that includes commitment to program, related experience and particular skills that would contribute to success in the program, and professional goals subsequent to completion of the program
Interview may be required for candidates under consideration, with a written response to one or more questions posed during the interview process.
Requirements for recommendations
:
The recommendation forms must be from individuals who can attest to the applicant’s potential for successful graduate study.
Admission review and assessment
Admission to graduate school at Oakland University is selective. In making admission recommendations to Oakland University Graduate School, each department assesses the potential of applicants for success in the program by examining their undergraduate records, goal statement, letters of recommendation, prerequisite courses, and any other admission requirements established by the academic department.
To be admitted to the graduate certificate program in full standing, the applicant must have an undergraduate cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 or above. Applicants with an undergraduate GPA less than 3.0, but with an appropriate academic background and strong letters of recommendation, may be considered for admission in limited standing. Students who qualify for this admission classification must complete a maximum of 12 credits of graduate coursework with a grade of B 3.0 or above in each course within the first three academic terms from the time of initial enrollment.
Admission to the graduate certificate in Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) is competitive. A limited number of students will be admitted and interviews may be required for applicants under consideration. Since this program is rigorous in coursework, candidates should be able to articulate their commitment to the program. During the interview, candidates must be able to demonstrate a reasonable level of awareness of the principles of applied behavior analysis, effective interpersonal skills, and discuss past experiences that highlight their commitment to high quality work. As part of the interview, candidates may be asked to provide a writing sample in response to a question or questions posed by the committee. The student must also be aware that they must hold a master’s degree prior to sitting for the board exam. If the degree is not in a BACB pre-approved area (Behavior Analysis, Education, or Psychology), it is the student’s responsibility to make a case to the BACB for an exception.
Certificate requirements (21 credits)
The Graduate Certificate in Applied Behavior Analysis: Basic is awarded upon satisfactory completion of 21 credits in an approved program of study. This certificate is designed to include only the course content required by the
Behavior Analyst Certification Board, Inc. (BACB)
. In order to be eligible for the BCBA certificate, the student must complete 2000 supervised practicum hours (“Supervised Independent Fieldwork”) according to BACB requirements and pass the national exam. Arrangement of the practicum hours is the responsibility of the student. The student must also hold a master’s degree prior to sitting for the exam. If the degree is not in a BACB pre-approved area, it is the student’s responsibility to make a case to the BACB for an exception.
Required courses (21 credits)
SE 6569 - Foundations of ABA
(3 Credits)
SE 6570 - Concepts and Principles of ABA
(3 credits)
SE 6571 - Behavioral Assessment
(3 credits)
SE 6572 - Behavior Change Procedures
(4 credits)
SE 6573 - Research Methods
(3 credits)
SE 6574 - Ethics
(3 credits)
SE 6575 - Personnel Supervision and Management
(2 credits)
Satisfactory academic progress
Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) is the term used to denote a student’s successful completion of coursework toward a certificate or degree. Federal regulations require the Office of Financial Aid to monitor Satisfactory Academic Progress for all financial aid recipients each semester.
Students who fall behind in their coursework, or fail to achieve minimum standards for grade point average and completion of classes, may lose their eligibility for all types of federal, state and university aid. Contact the
Office of Financial Aid
for additional details.
Good academic standing
All graduate students are expected to remain in
good academic standing
throughout the entire course of their graduate program. To be in good academic standing, a graduate student must make satisfactory progress toward fulfilling degree requirements, including the completion of critical degree milestones as set forth by the academic program. The student must also maintain a minimum semester and overall GPA of 3.0 (B).
Good academic standing is a requirement for:
Holding a Graduate Assistantship
Receiving a fellowship or scholarship
Advancing to candidacy for a graduate degree
Going on a leave of absence
Obtaining a graduate certificate or degree from Oakland University.
Additionally, graduate students must meet all department academic standards which may be more stringent than the minimum set forth by the University.
Graduate students who are not in good academic standing for any reason are subject to probation and/or dismissal from further graduate study.
Related program information
Plan of study
All accepted applicants, in consultation with their assigned faculty program adviser, must develop a plan of study that details specific courses the students will use to satisfy their degree requirements. The plan of study must be approved by the faculty program adviser and submitted by the student to the Oakland University Graduate School Office.
Master’s and graduate certificate students must submit a department-approved plan of study by the end of their first semester of graduate coursework. Doctoral students must submit an approved plan of study prior to completion of the first year of coursework. (See the
Graduate Student Responsibility
section of this catalog.)
Note:  Credit granted for successful completion of a course toward an undergraduate degree program may not be repeated for a graduate degree. If a substitution is approved, the minimum number of program-approved graduate credits will be required. A
Petition of Exception - OU Course Waiver/ Substitution
requesting the substitution must be approved.
For Graduation and Commencement specifics that students must complete on time, click
here
.
Relationship to the Master of Education in Special Education
Requirements for the certificate and endorsement programs are contained within the degree programs. Courses taken in an endorsement or certificate program may apply to the M.Ed. if the courses are transferred to the M.Ed. program before completion of the endorsement/certificate program (i.e., requirement is students have a three-year time frame for completion of the certificate program) and if courses are taken within the six-year time frame allowed for the degree.
Return to:
Degree Programs and Graduate Certificates
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)

