URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/advanced-online-autism-certificate/

Graduate Certificate
AUTISM SPECTRUM DISORDER: ADVANCED
Add an advanced autism endorsement to your Michigan teaching certificate and elevate your career in autism teaching and education.
The Centers for Disease Control estimates that 1 in 44 American children has an autism spectrum disorder (ASD). There’s a nationwide shortage of teachers with an autism specialist certification to meet the needs of the ASD population. The Oakland University Advanced Graduate Certificate in Autism Spectrum Disorder provides specialized training in ASD education for teachers with at least one prior special education endorsement. You can complete our online autism certification program in 12 to 24 months, making you eligible to obtain the ASD endorsement through the Michigan Department of Education. Educators with a certificate in ASD can enjoy careers in autism education as special educators, administrators, researchers, professors and service providers in various workplaces.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
The Centers for Disease Control estimates that 1 in 44 American children has an autism spectrum disorder (ASD). There’s a nationwide shortage of teachers with an autism specialist certification to meet the needs of the ASD population. The Oakland University Advanced Graduate Certificate in Autism Spectrum Disorder provides specialized training in ASD education for teachers with at least one prior special education endorsement. You can complete our online autism certification program in 12 to 24 months, making you eligible to obtain the ASD endorsement through the Michigan Department of Education. Educators with a certificate in ASD can enjoy careers in autism education as special educators, administrators, researchers, professors and service providers in various workplaces.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Advanced Graduate Autism Specialist Certification: The Oakland University Advantage
Because autism diagnoses are rising so rapidly, there is tremendous demand for highly skilled special education teachers with an advanced certification in autism. After completing the autism certification online program at Oakland University, you’ll be well-prepared for a career in autism education to meet the educational needs of the ASD population.
Our advanced autism certification online program allows you to:
Learn at your own pace in an online program.
You can study when and where you choose in Oakland’s certification in autism program. Our flexible online autism specialist certification format is perfect for working adults with busy lives.
Acquire hands-on field experience in advanced ASD education.
This experiential learning opportunity allows you to work with autism spectrum students in a real-world setting. You’ll spend a minimum of 180 clock hours teaching students on the autism spectrum, giving you first-rate training for your career in autism education.
Learn from a recognized autism education leader.
A leader in autism education for more than 30 years, Oakland University has a track record of excellence in educator training. You’ll graduate with a credential that’s highly respected by employers.
Boost your career in autism education with an ASD endorsement.
Our advanced autism specialist certification program qualifies you for ASD endorsement through the Michigan Online Education Certification System (MOECS). Certified ASD educators are in extremely high demand, so you’ll be well-positioned to find the ideal job to achieve your career goals.
Benefit from Oakland’s clinical and outreach programs.
In our autism specialist certification program, you’ll have the opportunity to work and learn in our on-campus Center for Autism. This facility’s programs include OUCARES, which offers extensive outreach programs for families affected by ASDs, and the Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) Autism Clinic, dedicated to the treatment and research of ASDs.
What Can You Do With an Advanced Graduate Certification in Autism Spectrum Disorder?
Educators with an advanced autism specialist certification are in very high demand, and the need is growing. A certification in autism education equips you for jobs such as:
Special education teacher
School administrator
Autism education researcher
Private autism instructor
Professional autism activist
College instructor
Top Courses for Students in the Advanced Graduate Certification in Autism Spectrum Disorder Program
The advanced certification in autism program (36 credits) is for teachers who have at least one prior special education endorsement. The average time to complete the advanced autism certification online program is 12 to 24 months. Coursework covers a wide range of ASD education topics and strategies, preparing you to become an expert in the field. Courses in the online autism certificate program include:
Educational Procedures for Students with ASD
Communication and Language Issues in ASD
Behavioral and Social Issues in Students with ASD
Collaboration and Consultation: ASD
Advanced Graduate Certification in Autism Spectrum Disorder Program Resources
Academic Requirements
Fieldwork experience/endorsement requirements
Department of Human Development and Child Studies
School of Education and Human Services
Programs Related to the Advanced Graduate Certification in Autism Spectrum Disorder
Not sure if the Advanced Graduate Certification in Autism is right for you? Check out these other programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
M.Ed. in Special Educa
EI Concentration - Tab 3
tion with EI (Emotional Impairment) Concentration
M.Ed. in Special Education with SLD (Specific Learning Difficulties) Concentration
Graduate Certificate in EI
Graduate Certificate in SLD
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

