URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/basic-online-autism-certificate/

Graduate Certificate
Autism Spectrum Disorder: Basic
Add a basic autism endorsement to your Michigan teaching certificate and elevate your career in autism teaching and education.
Approximately 1 in 44 children in the United States is diagnosed with an autism spectrum disorder (ASD), according to the Centers for Disease Control. Institutions across the country are seeking teachers with an autism specialist certification to meet the needs of the ASD population. The Oakland University Basic Graduate Certificate in Autism Spectrum Disorder caters to teachers without a prior special education endorsement. Our online certification in autism meets the requirements to obtain the Michigan Department of Education’s ASD endorsement and can be completed in 12 to 24 months. With a certificate in ASD, you can pursue a career in autism education as a special educator, administrator, researcher, professor or service provider in schools, homes or other workplaces.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Approximately 1 in 44 children in the United States is diagnosed with an autism spectrum disorder (ASD), according to the Centers for Disease Control. Institutions across the country are seeking teachers with an autism specialist certification to meet the needs of the ASD population. The Oakland University Basic Graduate Certificate in Autism Spectrum Disorder caters to teachers without a prior special education endorsement. Our online certification in autism meets the requirements to obtain the Michigan Department of Education’s ASD endorsement and can be completed in 12 to 24 months. With a certificate in ASD, you can pursue a career in autism education as a special educator, administrator, researcher, professor or service provider in schools, homes or other workplaces.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Basic Graduate Autism Specialist Certification: The Oakland University Advantage
With autism diagnoses rising, there is increased urgency to find highly skilled special education teachers — especially those with a certification in autism. Oakland University’s autism certification online program prepares you for a career in autism education to help fill a large gap in the educational needs of the ASD population.
Our autism certification online program will enable you to:
Set your own pace with our online program.
Studying when and where you choose allows you to fit the certification in autism program into your busy schedule. Our flexible online autism specialist certification allows you to continue working while you earn the ASD credential.
Gain real-world ASD teaching experience through our field experience program.
Oakland University’s autism spectrum disorder certificate combines online coursework with in-person experience in a community setting. The program includes a minimum of 180 clock hours teaching students on the autism spectrum, offering you a distinct advantage in your career in autism education.
Learn from a recognized autism education leader.
Oakland University has been a leader in autism education for more than 30 years. We have carefully designed our online autism certificate program to provide a valuable mix of classroom instruction and real-world experience. Our autism certification online program can be completed in 12 to 24 months.
Earn your ASD endorsement to boost your career in autism education.
Our autism specialist certification program meets the criteria for earning your ASD endorsement through the Michigan Online Education Certification System (MOECS). The endorsement certifies you as an ASD educator, positioning you to achieve your career goals.
Develop deeper insights through real clinical and outreach offerings.
Oakland’s autism specialist certification program is supported by our on-campus Center for Autism, which improves the lives of people impacted by ASDs. OUCARES offers extensive outreach programs for families affected by ASDs. Our Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) Autism Clinic is dedicated to the treatment and research of ASDs.
What Can You Do With a Basic Graduate Certification in Autism Spectrum Disorder?
Educators with an autism specialist certification are in high demand, and this trend is likely to continue to increase. Earning your certification in autism education prepares you to land your ideal job in any of a number of career areas, such as:
Special education teacher
School administrator
Autism education researcher
Private autism instructor
Professional autism activist
College instructor
Top Courses for Students in the Basic Graduate Certification in Autism Spectrum Disorder Program
The basic certification in autism program (28 credits) is for teachers who do not have a prior special education endorsement. The average time to complete the autism certification online program is 12 to 24 months. Your coursework will focus on a wide range of ASD education topics and strategies. Online autism certificate classes include:
Educational Procedures for Students with ASD
Communication and Language Issues in ASD
Behavioral and Social Issues in Students with ASD
Collaboration and Consultation: ASD
Basic Graduate Certification in Autism Spectrum Disorder Program Resources
Academic Requirements
Fieldwork experience/endorsement requirements
Department of Human Development and Child Studies
School of Education and Human Services
Programs Related to the Basic Graduate Certification in Autism Spectrum Disorder
Not sure if the Basic Graduate Certification in Autism is right for you? Check out these other programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
M.Ed. in Special Education with EI (Emotional Impairment) Concentration
M.Ed. in Special Education with SLD (Specific Learning Difficulties) Concentration
Graduate Certificate in EI
Graduate Certificate in SLD
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

