URL: https://catalog.oakland.edu/preview_program.php?catoid=66&poid=14137&returnto=14316

Dec 18, 2024
2024-2025 Graduate Catalog
Select a Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog
2024-2025 Graduate Catalog
2023-2024 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog
2023-2024 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2023 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2021 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2019 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2017 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-2014 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-2014 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2011-2012 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2011-2012 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2010-2011 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-21 Syllabus [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-19 Syllabus [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-18 Syllabus [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-20 Syllabus [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Colleges and Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Online Catalog User Guide
Archived catalogs
Degree Programs and Graduate Certificates
Online Programs
Combined Bachelor/Graduate Degree Programs
Graduate Admission Requirements
Admission terms and application deadlines
Graduate Course Descriptions
Oakland University
University Information
Graduate School at Oakland University
Academic Departments
College of Arts and Sciences
School of Music, Theatre and Dance
School of Business Administration
School of Education and Human Services
School of Engineering and Computer Science
School of Health Sciences
School of Nursing
University Libraries
Oakland University William Beaumont School of Medicine
Graduate/University Policies
Graduate Academic Advising
Student Responsibility
Student Code Of Conduct
Office of Research Administration
Office of the Registrar
Student Financial Services
International Students and Scholars
Professional Licensure and Certification Program Disclosures
Student Services and Centers
Calendars and Deadlines
Graduate Assistantships, Scholarships and Fellowships
Graduation and Commencement
Doctoral Dissertations and Abstracts Archive
Campus Map
My Portfolio
HELP
2024-2025 Graduate Catalog
Automotive Electrification, Graduate Certificate
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
Return to:
Degree Programs and Graduate Certificates
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
446 Engineering Center
(map)
(248) 370-2177 • Fax (248) 370-4633
www.oakland.edu/ece/
►
Apply Online
►
Class Schedule Search
Graduate Student Coordinator
Daniel Llamocca
438 Engineering Center
(248)370-4042
llamocca@oakland.edu
Program Coordinator
Brian Dean
446A Engineering Center
(248) 370-2822
bkdean@oakland.edu
Program Description
ECE offers a series of stackable certificate programs that can lead to a M.S. degree in Mechatronics and Robotics Engineering. We have partnered with industry to develop stackable certificates featuring cutting-edge skills in the areas of high demand by employers. You can work at your own pace towards your degree, building skills as you need them to maximize your career success.
The graduate certificate in Automotive Electrification is intended to train skilled leaders in electrified transportation systems that will replace the internal combustion engine vehicles. This program is aimed at achieving this goal, as well as addressing the emerging needs of this market. The certificate in Automotive Electrification will help students in the manufacturing of vehicles that can run independent of any hydrocarbon-based resources.
Admission terms and application deadlines
Before an applicant’s file can be reviewed for full program admission, all application documents must be received in Oakland University Graduate School by the semester deadlines listed below. Incomplete applications will not be sent to departments for admission review.
February 15 (early) April 15 (regular) and July 15 (late) for fall semester
October 1 (early) and November 15 (regular) for winter semester
March 1 (regular) for summer semester
International applicants
Application requirements
To be considered for graduate admission, applicants must submit all Graduate Application Requirements
and
additional department requirements by the published application deadlines:
Graduate Application Requirements
Additional department application requirements
Requirements for recommendations
:
Two recommendation forms must be from faculty members of the undergraduate major department or professionals in the field who can evaluate the scholarly achievement and potential of the applicant. These recommendations form an important part of the admission credentials.
Applicants must submit official scores from the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) if they graduated from an institution not accredited by a regional accrediting agency of the USA. The department may choose to waive the GRE requirement if at least one of the following special circumstances is met:
Applicant’s last degree is from a U.S. institution accredited by a regional accrediting agency.
Applicant’s overall GPA from last degree is at least 3.0 on a 4.0 scale.
Applicant has worked in the USA for at least two years in the engineering profession.
To request a waiver, applicants must submit a
Request to Waive GRE
form to the Graduate School as part of the application packet. The request for waiver is subject to the approval of the Graduate Admissions Committee
Bachelor of Science degree in mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, computer engineering, systems engineering, or an equivalent degree. Or Bachelor of Science in Mathematics, Computer Science, or an equivalent degree, and some experience working in a Mechatronics or Robotics engineering field.
Admission to master’s program is selective; applicants should have an undergraduate GPA of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or better for regular admission.
If the applicant’s undergraduate GPA is between 2.7 and 3.0 on a 4.0 scale, admission with limited standing may be offered. For applicants graduated from an institution not accredited by a regional accrediting agency of the USA, a 70% or better percentile score of the GRE Quantitative Reasoning section is required.
Applicants from institutions with which Oakland University has an articulation agreement containing alternative admission criteria will be admitted according to the criteria in that agreement.
Admission review and assessment
Admission to graduate school at Oakland University is selective. In making admission recommendations to Oakland University Graduate School, each department assesses the potential of applicants for success in the program by examining their undergraduate records, goal statement, letters of recommendation, prerequisite courses and any other admission requirements established by the academic department.
Certificate requirements
Students wishing to complete the Automotive Electrification Graduate Certificate will be required to complete 12 credit hours of coursework as outlined below. Courses counted towards a certificate cannot be counted to fulfill the requirements of another certificate.
Course requirements (12 credits)
a. Required courses (choose at least one)
ECE 5630 - Electric and Hybrid Drive Systems
(4 credits)
ME 5535 - Introduction to Electric Drive Vehicle Engineering
(4 credits)
b. Electives
ECE 5600 - Fundamentals of AC Motor Design
(4 credits)
ECE 5640 - Battery Management Systems
(4 credits)
ME 5545 - Fundamentals of Battery Systems for Hybrid and Electric Vehicles
(4 credits)
Satisfactory academic progress
Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) is the term used to denote a student’s successful completion of coursework toward a certificate or degree. Federal regulations require the Office of Financial Aid to monitor Satisfactory Academic Progress for all financial aid recipients each semester.
Students who fall behind in their coursework, or fail to achieve minimum standards for grade point average and completion of classes, may lose their eligibility for all types of federal, state and university aid. Contact the
Office of Financial Aid
for additional details.
Related program information
Plan of study
All accepted applicants, in consultation with their assigned faculty program adviser, must develop a plan of study that details specific courses the students will use to satisfy their degree requirements. The plan of study must be approved by the faculty program adviser and submitted by the student to Oakland University Graduate School.
Master’s and graduate certificate students must submit a department-approved plan of study by the end of their first semester of graduate coursework. Doctoral students must submit an approved plan of study prior to completion of the first year of coursework. (See the
Graduate Student Responsibility
section of this catalog.)
Note:  Credit granted for successful completion of a course toward an undergraduate degree program may not be repeated for a graduate degree. If a substitution is approved, the minimum number of program-approved graduate credits will be required. A
Petition of Exception - OU Course Waiver/ Substitution
requesting the substitution must be approved.
Time limits
All graduate certificate students are expected to complete their degree within the
time limit established by the University
.
Good academic standing
All graduate students are expected to remain in
good academic standing
throughout the entire course of their graduate program. To be in good academic standing, a graduate student must make satisfactory progress toward fulfilling degree requirements, including the completion of critical degree milestones as set forth by the academic program. The student must also maintain a minimum semester and overall GPA of 3.0.
Good academic standing is a requirement for:
Holding a Graduate Assistantship
Receiving a fellowship or scholarship
Advancing to candidacy for a graduate degree
Going on a leave of absence
Obtaining a graduate certificate or degree from Oakland University.
Additionally, graduate students must meet all department academic standards which may be more stringent than the minimum set forth by the University.
Department requirements
:
The minimum satisfactory grade for graduate work is B. Credit for completion of a course in the Master of Science program will be given for grades of B- or above but no more than two grades may be B-. Graduate credit will not be awarded for grades below B-. To repeat a course, a student must have the permission of the graduate committee of the school.
All grades received as a graduate student are used in computing the GPA except that, if a course has been repeated, the most recent grade is used in the calculation of the GPA. A graduate student is placed on academic probation if the student’s overall GPA drops below 3.0 or if the student receives more than one grade below B, including the original grade(s) of any repeated course(s). A graduate student receiving a grade less than B while on probation is subject to dismissal. A graduate student receiving more than two grades below B is subject to dismissal whether or not the student was put on probation previously.
In all programs, the minimum grade point requirement is an average of at least 3.0. If a student’s GPA is less than 3.0 after having attempted 16 credits, the student will be recommended for dismissal from the program.
Graduate students who are not in good academic standing for any reason are subject to probation and/or dismissal from further graduate study.
Return to:
Degree Programs and Graduate Certificates
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)

