URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/masters-biology/

Master of Arts
Biology
Our versatile biology master’s program equips you for professional advancement in teaching and non-research roles in scientific industries.
Ideal for working adults and pre-professional graduate students, Oakland University’s one-year master of arts in biology prioritizes coursework over research. With an unusually wide range of course options, our master of biology can easily be customized to fit your academic interests and career goals. Unlike the MS in biology, the MA in biology doesn’t require a research thesis, making it an excellent fit for teachers and non-research professionals in science careers. And the master of biology connects you to a diverse, active scientific community on campus and off. Flexible start dates and a student-friendly design make Oakland’s master of biology an excellent credential for building your career in education, environmental science, health care, resource management, and similar fields.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Ideal for working adults and pre-professional graduate students, Oakland University’s one-year master of arts in biology prioritizes coursework over research. With an unusually wide range of course options, our master of biology can easily be customized to fit your academic interests and career goals. Unlike the MS in biology, the MA in biology doesn’t require a research thesis, making it an excellent fit for teachers and non-research professionals in science careers. And the master of biology connects you to a diverse, active scientific community on campus and off. Flexible start dates and a student-friendly design make Oakland’s master of biology an excellent credential for building your career in education, environmental science, health care, resource management, and similar fields.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Master of Biology Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
Our biology MA program excels for its versatility and practical career value. You’ll get a personalized experience that pays off in the job market and the workplace.
Oakland’s master of biology prepares you for career success because of its:
Personalized curriculum.
The master of arts in biology involves more credits of coursework than a research-focused degree. And Oakland’s graduate catalog gives you a wide range of course options, so you can focus your studies in areas that best serve your objectives.
Engaged faculty.
Our biology master’s faculty offer professional mentorship and career guidance in addition to classroom instruction. You’ll learn from highly accomplished biologists who make graduate teaching a top priority.
Top-notch facilities.
Although the biology MA doesn’t require a research thesis, you still have the option to include hands-on research in your master of biology degree. Oakland’s 16 labs and on-campus natural preserves allow you to work with cutting-edge instruments and explore more than 100 acres of on-campus forests and wetlands.
Flexibility and convenience.
As a one-year program, Oakland’s master of biology is a comfortable fit for working adults who need to balance school with job responsibilities. You can begin the program in the fall, winter, or summer semester, arranging your schedule for maximum convenience.
Career connections.
Our master of biology helps you develop professional skills that have value in the job market. You’ll acquire expertise that can help you earn a promotion, switch careers, change employers, or simply get better results in your current job.
What Can You Do With a Master of Biology?
A biology MA qualifies you for a variety of jobs that have excellent earning potential. Demand is rising in areas such as science education, environmental science, microbiology, biochemistry, and epidemiology. Most of these fields offer above-average pay.
Our biology MA can help you compete for top jobs with employers such as:
Community colleges
High schools
Zoos and botanical gardens
Environmental agencies
Resource management organizations
Conservation nonprofits
Pharmaceutical companies
Health science labs
Genetic testing firms
MA Biology Curriculum
The Master of Arts in Biology requires 32 credits of graduate coursework. A research thesis is not required. The master of biology includes a minimum of three courses from each of two tracks: cell/molecular, and ecology, evolution, and behavior.
Oakland University offers a very wide range of graduate biology course options, covering subjects such as:
Biochemistry
Cell biology
Evolutionary biology
Ecology
Population biology
Conservation biology
Genetics
Scientific ethics
Genomics and bioinformatics
Microbiology
Molecular biology
You have the option to substitute a semester-long research project for one of your graduate courses.
Master of Arts in Biology Resources
Degree Requirements
Department of Biology
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Master of Arts in Biology
Not sure if the MA biology degree is right for you? Check out these other graduate programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Master of Science in Biology
Graduate Certificate in Biomedical Sciences
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

