URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/masters-of-biology/

Master of Science
Biology
Prepare for a scientific research career or Ph.D. program as you work one-on-one with a faculty mentor in our thesis-based Master of Biology (M.S.) program.
Ready to take your undergraduate degree in science to the next level? Oakland University’s Master of Science in Biology offers you the opportunity to further your biology studies with a strong focus on scientific research and a required thesis. Our Master of Biology program is ideal if you plan to explore scientific jobs with a biology degree or advance your career in biological research disciplines. It’s also a preferred degree (over an M.A. in biology) if you plan to pursue a Ph.D. program. In Oakland’s Master of Biology program, you’ll delve into biological subjects including biomedical research, ecology, evolution, behavior and more. You’ll also cap your learning experience by collaborating one-on-one with a faculty mentor in a specific area of biological sciences research.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Ready to take your undergraduate degree in science to the next level? Oakland University’s Master of Science in Biology offers you the opportunity to further your biology studies with a strong focus on scientific research and a required thesis. Our Master of Biology program is ideal if you plan to explore scientific jobs with a biology degree or advance your career in biological research disciplines. It’s also a preferred degree (over an M.A. in biology) if you plan to pursue a Ph.D. program. In Oakland’s Master of Biology program, you’ll delve into biological subjects including biomedical research, ecology, evolution, behavior and more. You’ll also cap your learning experience by collaborating one-on-one with a faculty mentor in a specific area of biological sciences research.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Master of Biology (M.S.) Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
Our Master of Science in Biology program excels for its strong interdisciplinary research focus and required thesis project. With these specialized experiences, you’ll stand out from the competition and be ready for the job market or further studies.
Oakland’s biology M.S. program offers you a number of advantages, including:
Strong research focus.
Working closely with your faculty mentor, you’ll dive deep into specific and advanced research areas like biochemistry, genetics, bioinformatics, cellular biology, molecular biology, physiology, ecology, evolution, immunology, microbiology and others.
Personalized curriculum.
Choosing among a wide range of advanced biology courses to develop an individual plan of study allows you to zero in on research interests to help you achieve your goals, whether you’ll be seeking jobs with a biology degree or applying to a Ph.D. program.
Leading-edge facilities.
With 16 labs and 100 acres of on-campus forests and wetlands, you’ll work with cutting-edge science instruments and explore natural preserves. Many of our labs receive funding from national agencies like the National Institutes of Health, the National Science Foundation, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and NASA.
Faculty collaboration.
From working side-by-side on biology faculty research projects to offering you professional industry insights to discussing your career goals, our faculty members are highly accomplished biologists who are dedicated to your education and your professional and personal success.
Industry connections.
Through extensive opportunities to network with professional members of the scientific community, you’ll make valuable connections in your Master of Biology program that can help boost your career or bolster your Ph.D. program application.
What Can You Do With a Master’s of Science in Biology?
Whether your path is applying to a Ph.D. program or pursuing jobs with a biology degree, Oakland’s Master of Biology program is where you can achieve it all. Jobs in scientific research offer strong earning potential and solid career growth opportunities. Our graduates have obtained positions such as:
Biophysicist
Environmental scientist
Epidemiologist
Forensic scientist
Genetic counselor
Microbiologist
Research scientist
Master of Biology (M.S.) Curriculum
Oakland’s master’s of science in biology requires completion of 32 credits of graduate coursework in addition to a thesis. You’ll customize your degree by choosing from a wide range of graduate biology courses with topics such as:
Biochemistry
Cell biology
Conservation biology
Ecology
Evolutionary biology
Genetics
Genomics and bioinformatics
Microbiology
Molecular biology
Population biology
Scientific ethics
Master of Biology (M.S.) Program Resources
Academic Requirements
Department of Biology
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Master of Biology (M.S.)
Not sure if our master’s of science in biology is right for you? Check out these other graduate degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Master of Arts in Biology
Graduate Certificate in Biomedical Sciences
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

