URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/phd-biomedical-sciences-health-environmental-chemi/

Doctor of Philosophy
Biomedical Sciences: Health and Environmental Chemistry
Explore new frontiers in environmental and health chemistry with a biomedical science degree from Oakland University.
OU’s Ph.D. in Biomedical Sciences, with a concentration in health and environmental chemistry, equips you with in-depth knowledge and practical experiences to solve critical societal issues. As a scientist and researcher, you’ll apply innovative methods to the determination, quantification and management of naturally occurring and synthetic chemical substances and related chemical processes — and their implications for our health and the environment.
With particular focus on these areas of chemistry, our biomedical science degree is the first of its kind in Michigan. Through your coursework and independent dissertation, you’ll be at the forefront of this important and emerging field of study, and directly contribute your doctoral-level knowledge to the solution of environmental and health-related chemical problems.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
OU’s Ph.D. in Biomedical Sciences, with a concentration in health and environmental chemistry, equips you with in-depth knowledge and practical experiences to solve critical societal issues. As a scientist and researcher, you’ll apply innovative methods to the determination, quantification and management of naturally occurring and synthetic chemical substances and related chemical processes — and their implications for our health and the environment.
With particular focus on these areas of chemistry, our biomedical science degree is the first of its kind in Michigan. Through your coursework and independent dissertation, you’ll be at the forefront of this important and emerging field of study, and directly contribute your doctoral-level knowledge to the solution of environmental and health-related chemical problems.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Biomedical Science Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
The Ph.D. in Biomedical Sciences is housed in Oakland’s chemistry department. You’ll benefit from state-of-the-art research facilities and renowned faculty experts, plus exceptional student services and a location that puts you at the heart of leading businesses and industry.
Our biomedical science degree empowers your learning with:
First-rate research facilities.
Uncover critical solutions as a biomedical doctor in our top-notch research facilities. You’ll get hands-on experience using advanced technology like flow cytometry instrumentation, and working in unique spaces like darkroom and isotope areas. You’ll also have access to our tissue culture suite, which that ensures safety with biohazardous materials.
Dedicated faculty mentors.
As soon as you enter the biomedical Ph.D. program, you’ll be encouraged to work alongside OU faculty on specific research topics, including supramolecular chemistry, drinking water quality and treatment processes, and the biogeochemical transformation of soil organic matter, to name a few.
Student success support.
Our comprehensive suite of student services ensures you’re supported in your pursuit of a Ph.D. in Biomedical Sciences and specialization in health and environmental chemistry. From Career Services to seminars with world-renowned researchers, we provide a well-rounded education that prepares you for success.
A location full of opportunity.
Rooted in Southeast Michigan, in the heart of business, industry and heath care organizations, you’ll be well positioned to partner with area leaders to find solutions to the most pressing health and environmental chemistry problems. Your biomedical science degree will be put to immediate use to make positive changes.
What Can You Do With a Ph.D. in Biomedical Sciences Degree?
According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, career growth in medical sciences is projected to grow 17 percent by 2031, much faster than the average rate. Biochemists earn a median annual salary of $102,270, while the median earnings for medical scientists are $91,510.
After completing your Ph.D. in Biomedical Sciences with a specialization in health and environmental chemistry, you’ll be qualified for advanced career positions such as:
Biomedical doctor
Clinical researcher
Medical sales director
Principal investigator
Senior biomedical scientist
Tenure-track university professor
Ph.D. in Biomedical Sciences Curriculum
Ph.D. in Biomedical Sciences Curriculum
Oakland’s biomedical Ph.D. requires 80 credits, including at least 20 credits of dissertation research. Foundational requirements include past coursework in analytical chemistry, biochemistry, inorganic chemistry, physical chemistry, cell biology and physiology. Sample courses include:
Advanced Analytical Chemistry
Chemical Separations
Ethics and Practice of Science
Organic Geochemistry
Signal Transduction
Topics in Biochemistry
You’ll complete the biomedical science degree program with an independent, original research project using our advanced laboratories and technical tools.
Ph.D. in Biomedical Sciences Program Resources
Academic Requirements
Department of Chemistry
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Ph.D. in Biomedical Sciences
Not sure if the biomedical Ph.D. is right for you ? Check out these other graduate degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Ph.D. in Biomedical Sciences Medical Physics
Graduate Certificate in Biomedical Sciences
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

