URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/phd-biomedical-sciences-medical-physics/

Doctor of Philosophy
Biomedical Sciences: Medical Physics
Oakland’s Ph.D. in biomedical sciences opens the door to a rewarding career in biology, medicine, or research.
Oakland University’s biomedical sciences Ph.D. in medical physics provides first-rate training for research in areas of physics related to medicine. Designed for students who seek research careers in hospitals, academia, or the biotech industry, our doctoral biomedical science degree enables you to conduct biomedical research in state-of-the-art facilities at world-renowned hospitals. You’ll work on high-level projects with major funding from national foundations and federal agencies, getting one-on-one mentoring and training from veteran researchers in the biomedical sciences. Recent graduates of Oakland’s biomedical sciences PhD program have a strong record in the job market, landing biomedical research jobs at highly rated hospitals and prestigious universities such as the University of Michigan and University of Pennsylvania.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University’s biomedical sciences Ph.D. in medical physics provides first-rate training for research in areas of physics related to medicine. Designed for students who seek research careers in hospitals, academia, or the biotech industry, our doctoral biomedical science degree enables you to conduct biomedical research in state-of-the-art facilities at world-renowned hospitals. You’ll work on high-level projects with major funding from national foundations and federal agencies, getting one-on-one mentoring and training from veteran researchers in the biomedical sciences. Recent graduates of Oakland’s biomedical sciences PhD program have a strong record in the job market, landing biomedical research jobs at highly rated hospitals and prestigious universities such as the University of Michigan and University of Pennsylvania.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Biomedical Science Ph.D. in Medical Physics: The Oakland University Advantage
The biomedical science Ph.D. in medical physics is housed in Oakland’s physics department. You’ll enjoy the first-rate amenities and faculty of a large research university, plus the collegiality, personalized training, and supportive relationships of a smaller institution.
Our Ph.D. biomedical program enables you to:
Conduct research in outstanding hospitals.
Oakland’s biomedical Ph.D. program has longstanding relationships with numerous hospitals in southeastern Michigan, including Henry Ford Hospital and William Beaumont Hospital.
Work in top-notch research facilities.
We support our biomedical research Ph.D. candidates with advanced technology that includes confocal microscopy laboratories, flow cytometry instrumentation, darkroom and isotope laboratories, cold rooms, and a tissue culture suite that supports work with biohazardous materials. The campus also houses the Center for Biomedical Research, a collaborative hub of research and training.
Collaborate with high-level researchers.
You’ll get attentive, first-rate training from exceptional faculty who are highly accomplished in biomedical research and publication. Doctoral advisors in Oakland’s biomedical sciences program are active in areas such as cell migration, magnetic particle imaging, cancer therapy, and nuclear medicine.
Enter the job market with excellent credentials.
Graduates of Oakland’s biomedical sciences Ph.D. program have an outstanding employment record. Recent alumni have found positions at the University of Michigan, University of Pennsylvania, Henry Ford Hospital, and other prestigious institutions.
Acquire well-rounded professional experience.
In Oakland’s biomedical sciences Ph.D. program, you’ll gain the ability to pursue research careers in numerous settings, from hospitals to medical labs, universities, and industrial R&D departments.
What Can You Do With a Biomedical Sciences Ph.D. in Medical Physics?
According to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics, employment in the biomedical sciences is expected to grow 6 percent by 2030. Biomedical engineers earn a median annual salary of $92,620, while the median earnings for medical scientists are $91,510. Compensation is projected to grow 17 percent by 2030.
After completing the Ph.D. in biomedical sciences, you’ll be qualified for high-level jobs such as:
Tenure-track university professor
Clinical researcher
Biomedical scientist
Biomedical engineer
Biotechnology product developer
Medical writer
Biomedical Sciences Ph.D. in Medical Physics Curriculum
The biomedical sciences Ph.D. in medical physics requires 80 credits, including at least 20 credits of dissertation research. Foundational requirements include graduate coursework in theoretical physics, mathematical methods, biophysical sciences, and laboratory proficiency. Sample courses include:
Quantum Mechanics
Applied Numerical Methods
Advanced Human Physiology
Radiation Biophysics
Ethics and Practice of Science
Stochastic Processes
You’ll complete the program with an original research project using state-of-the-art experimental or theoretical methods to study a problem of current interest.
Biomedical Sciences Ph.D. in Medical Physics Resources
Academic Requirements
Department of Physics
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Biomedical Science Ph.D. in Medical Physics
Not sure if the Biomedical Sciences Ph.D. in Medical Physics is right for you ? Check out these graduate programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Ph.D. in Biological and Biomedical Sciences
Master of Science in Biology
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

