URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/education-administration-central-office/

Post-Master’s Graduate Certificate
Central Office Administration
Acquire the credentials and competencies you need for a successful career in district-level educational administration.
Oakland University’s standards-based graduate certificate in education administration equips you to apply for licensure from the Michigan Department of Education as a district-level educational leader. Offered mostly online to complement your work schedule, our educational administration program serves active professionals who already hold a master’s degree in education or an aligned discipline (such as social work, counseling, or public administration). You’ll learn evidence-based educational leadership strategies that blend theory with hands-on practice, gaining the knowledge and experience to supervise teams, design policies, assess outcomes, and transform instruction. Fully aligned with Michigan and national standards, our graduate certificate in educational administration gives you the training you need to maximize your impact on student success.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University’s standards-based graduate certificate in education administration equips you to apply for licensure from the Michigan Department of Education as a district-level educational leader. Offered mostly online to complement your work schedule, our educational administration program serves active professionals who already hold a master’s degree in education or an aligned discipline (such as social work, counseling, or public administration). You’ll learn evidence-based educational leadership strategies that blend theory with hands-on practice, gaining the knowledge and experience to supervise teams, design policies, assess outcomes, and transform instruction. Fully aligned with Michigan and national standards, our graduate certificate in educational administration gives you the training you need to maximize your impact on student success.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Central Office Administration Certificate: The Oakland University Advantage
Our educational administration program pairs online courses and discussion with on-campus sessions one Saturday a month in the fall and winter terms and two Saturdays a month in summer term. This hybrid model enables you to earn the central office administration certificate from anywhere in Michigan in one calendar year, while you’re working full-time.
The program features:
A marketable skill set.
Developed in collaboration with Michigan school superintendents and policy experts, our educational administration program emphasizes the proficiencies that district-level employers require. You’ll gain the capacity to design and implement multi-school policies, take part in regional and statewide initiatives, forge community partnerships, manage budgets, evaluate personnel, and more.
Immersive, real-world training.
Oakland University’s central office administration program includes a robust field placement that matches your expertise and career objectives. You’ll get one-on-one coaching from a seasoned educational leader, gaining confidence and professional polish along with strong administrative skills.
Expert instructors.
You’ll learn from veteran educational leaders who have years of experience as district-level administrators. Many of Oakland’s educational administration faculty remain active as district-level consultants and advisers, with statewide connections to help you find internship opportunities and learn about  job openings.
A tight-knit peer community.
Our educational administration graduate program employs a cohort model that promotes strong relationships and mutual support. You’ll build enduring relationships with fellow educators, developing a professional network to stay connected with as you move forward in your career.
Articulation with doctoral degrees.
The 24 graduate hours earned for the central office administration certificate can serve as cognate credit toward either an Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership or a Ph.D. in Educational Leadership at Oakland University, should you also be admitted to a doctoral program.
What Can You Do With a Post-Master’s Graduate Certificate in Central Office Administration?
This program equips you with marketable expertise for a wide variety of educational leadership roles. It also qualifies you to apply for state certification as a central office administrator, which is preferred by many employers (although not currently required by the state of Michigan).
You can apply for admission to the Post Master’s Central Office Certificate Program with a master’s degree in disciplines such as education, social work, counseling, or a related field. Upon completing the program and attaining state certification, you will be qualified to apply for district-level educational leadership jobs such as:
Superintendent
Assistant superintendent
Curriculum director
Curriculum associate
Program supervisor
Director of assessment
Graduate Certificate in Central Office Administration: What You’ll Learn
The program consists of six courses totaling 18 credits, plus a three-course internship sequence (6 credits) that complements your formal coursework. Coursework gives students the opportunity to complete assignments for an authentic work environment and solve complex problems in school districts. The coursework and internship experiences address topics such as:
District leadership
Instructional leadership
School improvement
Organizational resources
Human resources
Community relations
Political and legal issues
State and federal mandates
Accountability
Central Office Administration Program Resources
Admission requirements
Program Requirements
Department of Organizational Leadership
School of Education and Human Services
Programs Related to the Post-Master’s Graduate Certificate in Central Office Administration
Not sure if the central office administration certificate is right for you ? Check out these other graduate degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
M.Ed. in Educational Leadership
Ph.D. in Educational Leadership
Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

