URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/master-chemistry/

Master of Science
Chemistry
Expand the boundaries of science with Oakland University's chemistry master's which prepares you for doctoral-level study, advanced employment or postsecondary teaching.
Oakland's well-established chemistry program offers you flexibility in earning your Master of Science in Chemistry, depending on your personal and professional goals. Learn full-time or part-time. Focus your area of study. Prepare for a Ph.D. or other advanced degree. You can even build a thesis or non-thesis program of study.
As a student in our chemistry MS program, you’ll conduct cutting-edge research in the chemical sciences and elevate your knowledge and skills to the next level. Our chemistry master's program is designed to prepare you for a future in the field of chemistry while working alongside renowned faculty to find innovative solutions for the challenges of today and tomorrow.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland's well-established chemistry program offers you flexibility in earning your Master of Science in Chemistry, depending on your personal and professional goals. Learn full-time or part-time. Focus your area of study. Prepare for a Ph.D. or other advanced degree. You can even build a thesis or non-thesis program of study.
As a student in our chemistry MS program, you’ll conduct cutting-edge research in the chemical sciences and elevate your knowledge and skills to the next level. Our chemistry master's program is designed to prepare you for a future in the field of chemistry while working alongside renowned faculty to find innovative solutions for the challenges of today and tomorrow.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Chemistry Masters Program: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland's chemistry master's offers you the opportunity to craft your own program of study based on what you want to achieve. You can choose to focus on a specific area of chemistry, prepare for advanced studies, such as a Ph.D. program, and decide if a thesis is right for your education and career goals. You may also adapt your chemistry master's program for either full-time or part-time study, giving you flexibility with work and life commitments.
You'll have the distinct advantage of designing your personalized chemistry master's program through:
Focused areas of study.
By selecting the appropriate courses, you can focus your chemistry master's in traditional areas of chemistry like analytical, biochemistry, inorganic, organic or physical, or in interdisciplinary areas such as environmental chemistry, chemical education, polymer chemistry or toxicology.
Preparation for advanced studies.
Collaborate with your faculty program adviser to design your chemistry master's program toward further learning, like pursuing a Ph.D. or other advanced degree in fields like pharmacology, toxicology, oceanography, medicine, environmental science or chemistry.
Options to prepare a final chemistry MS project.
If you choose to work toward a project thesis, you'll immerse yourself in significant laboratory or theoretical research — a valuable experience if your goal is to pursue a Ph.D. or a career in an industrial laboratory field. The non-thesis option is ideal if you are unable to commit to the rigors of a thesis, or a thesis is not necessary for achieving your goals for a chemistry masters.
What Can You Do With A Chemistry MS Degree?
By earning your Master of Science in Chemistry from Oakland University, you’ll be well prepared for a career in a wide variety of disciplines, including science, engineering, technology, education and more. A chemistry master's also leads to opportunities in chemistry-specific industries like chemical manufacturing and material production.
Graduates with a chemistry MS degree seek career positions such as:
Chemical engineer
Chemistry lecturer
Environmental scientist
Epidemiologist
Food scientist
Forensic scientist
Pharmaceutical sciences manager
Product development scientist
Research chemist
Enjoy strong earning power and job growth.
According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, careers for graduates with a chemistry MS degree provide strong earnings and career growth. The BLS reports that the annual median salary for epidemiologists is $78,830, with job growth expected to surpass 26% through 2031 — more than four times the average growth rate for all jobs. The annual median salary for chemical engineers is $105,550, with an expected job growth rate of 14%.
Chemistry Masters Curriculum
The Oakland chemistry MS is a 32 credit-hour program. Your coursework will depend in large part on the type of program you design. In addition to electives you choose, you can expect to take courses like these for your master's degree in chemistry:
Analytical chemistry
Biochemistry
Environmental science
Inorganic chemistry
Organic chemistry
Physical chemistry
Polymer/industrial chemistry
Oakland University Chemistry Masters Program Resources
Program Requirements
Financial Assistance
Department of Chemistry
Programs Related to the Chemistry MS
Not sure if the chemistry master's is right for you? Check out these other graduate degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Master of Biology (M.A.)
Master of Biology (M.S.)
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

