URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/master-science-clinical-diagnostic-sciences/

Master of Science
Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences
Advance your health care knowledge and technical expertise to pursue leadership and supervisory opportunities in clinical and diagnostic sciences.
Oakland University’s Master of Science in Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences (CDS) is designed to meet the rising demand for well-trained professionals in the fast-growing health care field. This demand is driven by the need to provide specialized care for the growing elderly population and an increased awareness of global health threats.
Our clinical and diagnostic sciences program prepares you to become a caring and skilled expert who can research and find solutions to both common and uncommon health issues. This Master of Science degree is ideal for individuals with qualifying bachelor’s degrees and current professionals looking to advance their licenses as laboratory or diagnostic scientists.
We offer three completion options so that you can align your CDS program with your education level and career aspirations. Choose from a traditional path, a professional development path or our combined bachelor’s/master’s program. We also offer a
Graduate Certificate in Pathology Sciences
that can be taken as a part of the master’s degree or independently.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University’s Master of Science in Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences (CDS) is designed to meet the rising demand for well-trained professionals in the fast-growing health care field. This demand is driven by the need to provide specialized care for the growing elderly population and an increased awareness of global health threats.
Our clinical and diagnostic sciences program prepares you to become a caring and skilled expert who can research and find solutions to both common and uncommon health issues. This Master of Science degree is ideal for individuals with qualifying bachelor’s degrees and current professionals looking to advance their licenses as laboratory or diagnostic scientists.
We offer three completion options so that you can align your CDS program with your education level and career aspirations. Choose from a traditional path, a professional development path or our combined bachelor’s/master’s program. We also offer a
Graduate Certificate in Pathology Sciences
that can be taken as a part of the master’s degree or independently.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences M.S.: The Oakland University Advantage
At Oakland University, we’re preparing the next generation of clinical and diagnostic science experts to provide cutting-edge research that improves health care and saves lives.
Whether you’re just beginning your health care career or seeking leadership roles in your current organization, our program provides many benefits to help you reach your goals:
Expert faculty mentoring:
We ensure that class sizes in our clinical and diagnostic sciences program are small so that you can have many opportunities to work closely with our
internationally respected CDS faculty
. They have decades of experience as practitioners and educators, and they pull from this experience in their classrooms to prepare you for advanced research and collaboration.
Customizable program:
Once you’re accepted into the Master of Science degree program, you’ll consult with your assigned faculty advisor to create a plan of study to satisfy your degree requirements. This ensures your educational experience at OU prepares you for your advanced professional life beyond graduation.
Internship opportunities:
There’s no better way to apply your knowledge and skills than with hands-on learning experiences in working labs and hospitals. As part of your clinical and diagnostic sciences program, you’ll participate in a leadership internship that provides expert guidance.
What Can You Do With a Graduate Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences Degree?
From large hospitals to small local clinics, medical providers rely heavily on the research and expertise of clinical and diagnostic science professionals. As new health challenges emerge and technologies evolve, these professionals will become increasingly vital.
The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) predicts a steady increase in demand for clinical science laboratory techs and technologists over the next decade. Oakland’s Master of Science degree prepares you for these roles while also opening doors to additional opportunities with even greater growth and earning potential.
This includes graduate-level medical scientists, with BLS-projected growth of 10% by 2032 and an average annual salary of $99,930, and medical health services managers, with 28% growth and an average salary of $104,830.
With a CDS master’s degree from Oakland, you’ll be prepared for a wide range of diagnostic and clinical science career paths, including but not limited to:
Administrator
Advanced practice specialist
Clinical educator
Lead technical specialist
Manager
Technical supervisor
Top Courses for Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences Students
OU’s Master of Science in Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences equips you with the knowledge and skills to become a leader in your field. Our core curriculum provides a solid foundation in:
Pathology
Statistics in health
Endocrinology
Pharmacology
Research methods
Building on this strong base, you’ll choose from three specialized pathways to tailor your program to your specific career goals:
Traditional/Research Pathway
You’ll gain deeper knowledge and experience in clinical laboratory research. This pathway includes a capstone project — a unique chance to conduct your own research-based or problem-based project that’s relevant to your career goals.
Professional Development Pathway
This pathway is for previously certified health care professionals seeking management or administrative positions. You’ll take courses in advanced clinical and diagnostics sciences, management, organizational behavior and public administration. You can also tailor your program to your career goals with electives in educational theory, leadership, academic affairs and higher education.
Combined Medical Laboratory Sciences Pathway
This pathway is for students pursuing Oakland’s Bachelor of Science in Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences with a specialization in Medical Laboratory Science. The combined B.S./M.S. program allows you to complete both a bachelor’s and a Master of Science degree in less time than it would take to complete each degree separately.
Master of Science in Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences Resources
Clinical and Diagnostic Science Program Requirements
Department of Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences
School of Health Sciences
Programs Related to the Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences M.S.
Not sure if the M.S. in clinical and diagnostic sciences is right for you? Check out these other graduate degree programs at Oakland and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Master of Science in Interdisciplinary Healthcare Systems
Master of Physician Assistant Sciences
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

