URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/pre-physician-assistant/

Bachelor of Science
Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences: Specialization in Pre-Physician Assistant
Get a head start on the competition for entry to physician assistant graduate school.
Oakland University’s Bachelor of Science in Clinical Diagnostic Sciences with pre-physician assistant specialization is the only program of its kind in the state of Michigan, and one of only a few pre-physician assistant programs in the country. This unique specialization gives you a competitive edge when applying to postgraduate physician assistant programs. In addition to an outstanding academic foundation, our pre-physician assistant degree offers hands-on experience that gives you a head start on physician assistant graduate school. You’ll acquire clinical and laboratory skills that every physician assistant needs, while collaborating with other pre-health students on interdisciplinary teams. You’ll complete the pre-physician assistant degree with the scientific background, professional training, and proven achievements to compete for admission to the best physician assistant graduate programs.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University’s Bachelor of Science in Clinical Diagnostic Sciences with pre-physician assistant specialization is the only program of its kind in the state of Michigan, and one of only a few pre-physician assistant programs in the country. This unique specialization gives you a competitive edge when applying to postgraduate physician assistant programs. In addition to an outstanding academic foundation, our pre-physician assistant degree offers hands-on experience that gives you a head start on physician assistant graduate school. You’ll acquire clinical and laboratory skills that every physician assistant needs, while collaborating with other pre-health students on interdisciplinary teams. You’ll complete the pre-physician assistant degree with the scientific background, professional training, and proven achievements to compete for admission to the best physician assistant graduate programs.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Pre-Physician Assistant Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
Because Oakland’s pre-physician assistant degree is one of the few nationwide (and the only one in Michigan), our program helps you stand out in the graduate school applicant pool. While admissions to physician assistant programs are intensely competitive, you’ll be among the few applicants with an undergraduate education that’s specifically tailored to the profession.
Our pre-physician assistant degree features:
Specialized academic preparation.
Oakland’s pre-physician assistant degree includes every prerequisite course required for admission to the most competitive PA schools. You’ll be equipped with a superior foundation in science, human health, and related fields, enabling you to excel at the next level of your physician assistant education.
Focused career training.
You’ll acquire the professional mindset and philosophy you need to succeed in a physician assistant career. In addition, our physician assistant program introduces you to the medical instruments and technology you’ll use on the job.
Practical experience.
We offer a hands-on pre-physician assistant degree that gives you the option of learning in clinical and community settings. You’ll have opportunities to shadow physician assistants and interact with practitioners.
Interdisciplinary approach.
Oakland University’s pre-physician assistant program taps the full resources of the School of Health Sciences, so you’ll be prepared to work as part of a dynamic medical team. You’ll collaborate with students from other pre-health professional programs, including pharmacy, nutrition, physical therapy, nursing, and medicine.
Outstanding faculty
. You’ll learn from experienced professors who combine classroom knowledge with clinical experience. Our physician assistant faculty provide you with professional mentoring as well as academic instruction, sharing wisdom you can’t find in any textbook.
What Can You Do With a Pre-Physician Assistant Degree?
U.S. News & World Report ranked physician assistant #1 in its 2021 Best Jobs report and 2021 Best Health Care Jobs report. These rankings reflect several benefits of physician assistant careers, including robust job growth, high salaries, employer demand, and work-life balance.
The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics projects physician assistant jobs to grow 31% by 2029, an exceptionally high growth rate that’s significantly above the average for all occupations. The median physician assistant salary was $112,260 as of May 2019.
A variety of health care employers offer physician assistant jobs, including:
Private medical practices
Hospitals
Outpatient clinics
Schools
Nursing homes
Long-term care facilities
Top Courses for the Pre-Physician Assistant Degree
The Bachelor of Science in Clinical Diagnostic Sciences with pre-physician assistant specialization includes the prerequisite courses necessary for entry to most physician assistant graduate programs.
Our pre-physician assistant degree includes required coursework in chemistry, biology, physics, psychology, genetics, nutrition, immunology, pharmacology, and other science and health subjects. For a complete course list, consult the
Oakland University catalog
.
You’ll also take the following four pre-physician assistant courses:
Pre-Physician Assistant Foundations
Practical Applications for the Pre-Physician Assistant
The Pre-Physician Assistant Professional
Pre-Physician Assistant Professionalism Seminar
The program concludes with elective courses in Clinical Diagnostic Science. You can choose two electives in areas such as:
Molecular Diagnostics
Clinical Chemistry
Public Health
Social Determinants of Health
Hematology
Pre-Physician Assistant Degree Program Resources
Major requirements
Department of Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences
School of Health Sciences
Programs Related to the Pre-Physician Assistant Degree in Exercise Science
Not sure if the pre-physician assistant degree is right for you? Check out these other degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Bachelor of Science in Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences / Specialization in Pre-Clinical Professions
Bachelor of Science in Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences / Specialization in Medical Laboratory Science
Bachelor of Science in Health Sciences / Concentration in Pre-Health Professional Studies
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

