URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/clinical-mental-health-counseling-ma/

Master of Arts
Clinical Mental Health Counseling
Our CMHC master’s degree prepares you to help individuals become self-aware, growth-oriented and effective in mastering life’s challenges.
Clinical mental health counseling, or CMHC, requires insight, attentiveness and a personal touch. Those characteristics define Oakland University’s Master of Arts in Clinical Mental Health Counseling. Whether you’re a recent university graduate or a working adult seeking new career opportunities, our CMHC master’s degree equips you to help people and families lead happier, more rewarding lives. You’ll get face-to-face instruction, close guidance from faculty and supervised mental health counseling experience, both on campus and in the community. Our master’s program in counseling qualifies you for the licensed professional counselor (LPC) exam, and convenient evening classes make it possible to complete your master’s degree while working full time.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Clinical mental health counseling, or CMHC, requires insight, attentiveness and a personal touch. Those characteristics define Oakland University’s Master of Arts in Clinical Mental Health Counseling. Whether you’re a recent university graduate or a working adult seeking new career opportunities, our CMHC master’s degree equips you to help people and families lead happier, more rewarding lives. You’ll get face-to-face instruction, close guidance from faculty and supervised mental health counseling experience, both on campus and in the community. Our master’s program in counseling qualifies you for the licensed professional counselor (LPC) exam, and convenient evening classes make it possible to complete your master’s degree while working full time.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Master of Arts in Clinical Mental Health Counseling: The Oakland University Advantage
Professional clinical counselors use scientific knowledge and subjective insight to help their patients. You’ll master both halves of that skill set in Oakland University’s Master of Arts in Clinical Mental Health Counseling program. We offer a flexible, customizable clinical mental health counseling degree that amplifies your strengths, broadens your range of proficiency and prepares you to positively impact people’s lives.
Our CMHC master’s degree provides you with:
Extensive clinical mental health experience.
Oakland University operates the
School of Education and Human Services Counseling Center
and is closely connected to the School of Engineering and Computer Science mental health counseling clinics that offer services to the campus community and public. Both facilities enable CMHC master’s students to put classroom concepts into practice while working directly with patients under close faculty guidance and supervision. In addition, the clinical mental health counseling degree includes one semester-long internship in an off-campus setting with a professional clinical counselor.
Attention from expert faculty.
Although our professors stand out for their academic credentials and professional achievements, what really sets them apart is their unwavering support for CMHC students. As a clinical mental health counseling student, you’ll receive personal mentorship and career guidance in addition to comprehensive classroom instruction.
Rigorous academic training.
Oakland’s CMHC degree is accredited by the Council for the Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs (CACREP). You’ll acquire a broad theoretical foundation that draws on psychology, philosophy, education and related fields. Our master’s program in counseling covers the most current research and evidence-based practice in clinical mental health counseling, and it prepares you for doctoral programs if you choose to continue your studies.
Flexibility and convenience.
Our CMHC master’s degree is accessible to all kinds of students, from recent college graduates to adults who’ve spent years in the workforce. Evening classes enable you to complete your clinical mental health counseling program while working full time. You can also earn income as a teaching assistant and apply for scholarships that cover partial expenses for tuition, research or international study.
What Can You Do With a CMHC Degree?
Professional clinical counselors care about people, are superior listeners and feel rewarded by helping individuals navigate crises and challenges. If you fit this description, our Master of Arts in Clinical Mental Health Counseling degree might be ideal.
Professional opportunities for certified clinical mental health counselors are growing rapidly. You may find work as a professional clinical counselor in areas such as:
Addiction recovery
Child or adolescent mental health
Family therapy
Group therapy
Marriage counseling
Post-traumatic stress
Suicide prevention
Clinical Mental Health Counseling Curriculum
Our Master of Arts in Clinical Mental Health Counseling degree totals 60 credits. The program includes courses that enhance your knowledge of academic mental health counseling topics and clinical courses that teach you the skills to become a mental health counselor and help clients. You’ll also complete one off-campus clinical internship to finish the CMHC degree.
Master’s program in counseling courses address a wide range of subjects:
Addiction
Career development and counseling
Counseling and psychotherapy
Ethics
Group counseling
Individual and family development
Social justice and diversity
Testing and assessment
Testing, assessment and diagnosis
Clinical Mental Health Counseling Degree Resource
CMHC program requirements
Department of Counseling
School of Education and Human Services
Programs Related to the Master’s in Clinical Mental Health Counseling
Not sure if the Master of Arts in Clinical Mental Health Counseling is right for you? Check out these other graduate degree programs at Oakland and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Corporate and Worksite Wellness Graduate Certificate
Psychology M.S.
School Counseling M.A.
Social Work M.S.W.
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

