URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/masters-communication/

Master of Arts
Communication
Earn an affordable, adaptable MA communication degree that prepares you for long-term success in a rapidly evolving industry.
The MA in Communication at Oakland University provides a broad, practical foundation for a leadership career in communications. Whether you seek a communications job in academia, industry research, publishing, digital media, broadcasting, or another sector, our MA communication program equips you with the skills and theoretical expertise you need to succeed. The program features small classes that ensure you get extensive one-on-one attention from faculty. Our MA communication degree also offers add broad range of course options, so you can personalize the degree to fit your interests and career objectives. Graduates of Oakland’s MA communication program have gone on to highly ranked Ph.D. programs, as well as careers in public relations, marketing, sports, and other fields.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
The MA in Communication at Oakland University provides a broad, practical foundation for a leadership career in communications. Whether you seek a communications job in academia, industry research, publishing, digital media, broadcasting, or another sector, our MA communication program equips you with the skills and theoretical expertise you need to succeed. The program features small classes that ensure you get extensive one-on-one attention from faculty. Our MA communication degree also offers add broad range of course options, so you can personalize the degree to fit your interests and career objectives. Graduates of Oakland’s MA communication program have gone on to highly ranked Ph.D. programs, as well as careers in public relations, marketing, sports, and other fields.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Master's Degree in Communication: The Oakland University Advantage
Communication trends and technologies are constantly changing, so it’s imperative to cultivate skills that you can adapt as the industry evolves. Oakland’s MA communication degree provides you with a superior theoretical background and durable expertise that sets you up for long-term career success.
In addition, our master's in communication degree offers:
Strong faculty relationships.
Because it’s a small program, our MA communication degree strong, supportive relationships between faculty fellow students. Our professors offer professional mentorship along with academic guidance, helping you build a durable foundation for your career in communications.
Professional development opportunities.
Oakland’s location in a top media market and global industrial hub is one of our MA communication program’s top assets. You’ll find outstanding opportunities to gain hands-on experience and develop your professional network.
Advanced research training.
Faculty in our MA communication program have excellent research credentials and extensive publishing credits. You’ll cultivate top-notch skills in academic writing, critical thinking, and research design, while developing an outstanding theoretical foundation.
Academic freedom.
Students are encouraged to personalize the MA communication degree in accordance with their academic interests and career goals. In addition to a broad range of course options, the program includes a thesis or creative project that you custom-design in collaboration with your faculty adviser.
Practical, transferable skills.
You’ll become proficient in writing, research, critical thinking, and strategic planning in the MA communication program. These skills have value in nearly every industry, giving you a broad range of career opportunities after graduation.
What Can You Do With an MA Communication Degree?
Many of Oakland’s MA communication graduates have chosen to continue their education, earning admission to top-ranking Ph.D. programs in communication, mass communication, rhetoric, and writing.
For those who choose to enter the workforce after completing the MA communication degree, Oakland students have gained employment in a broad range of fields, including:
Public relations
Communication
Marketing
Sports
Human resources
Higher education
Event planning
Government affairs
Social media
Advertising
Radio and television
Publishing
Business communication
MA Communication Curriculum
The MA communication degree requires 32 credits of graduate coursework. You can complete the degree in two years as a full-time student, or three to four years as a part-time student.
You’ll take core courses in graduate studies, communication scholarship, and research methods. The remainder of the MA communication program consists of elective courses and a personalized exit project (thesis or creative project) that you design in collaboration with your faculty adviser. Elective course offerings span a broad range of subject matter, reflecting the diversity and global reach of 21st-century workplaces. You can take electives on topics such as:
Video games
Gender and sexuality
Organizational communication
Cultural power dynamics
Feminism
Privacy
Audience research
Health communication
Interpersonal communication
Cultural citizenship
MA Communication Resources
Academic Requirements
Department of Communication, Journalism, and Public Relations
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the MA Communication Degree
Not sure if the MA communication program is right for you ? Check out these other graduate degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Masters in Higher Education
Masters in English
Masters in Linguistics
Masters in Public Administration
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

