URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/master-of-music-in-conducting/

MASTER OF MUSIC
CONDUCTING
Orchestrate unforgettable performances with a degree in music emphasizing high-level expertise in both instrumental and choral conducting techniques.
Take your passion for music to the podium with Oakland University’s Master of Music in Conducting. Whether you envision leading orchestras to breathtaking performances or guiding soulful choral ensembles, our master’s degree in music will immerse you in the captivating world of instrumental and choral conducting. Designed for music teachers, professionals and undergraduates, our Master of Music in Conducting features passionate faculty and unique opportunities to equip you with the skills and knowledge to thrive in the world of music. As an Oakland music major, you’ll gain a deep understanding of the music conductor’s role, musical interpretation and ensemble dynamics. You’ll explore score analysis, rehearsal techniques and leadership skills, and delve into advanced conducting techniques, including historical context, preparing you for a successful conducting career.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Take your passion for music to the podium with Oakland University’s Master of Music in Conducting. Whether you envision leading orchestras to breathtaking performances or guiding soulful choral ensembles, our master’s degree in music will immerse you in the captivating world of instrumental and choral conducting. Designed for music teachers, professionals and undergraduates, our Master of Music in Conducting features passionate faculty and unique opportunities to equip you with the skills and knowledge to thrive in the world of music. As an Oakland music major, you’ll gain a deep understanding of the music conductor’s role, musical interpretation and ensemble dynamics. You’ll explore score analysis, rehearsal techniques and leadership skills, and delve into advanced conducting techniques, including historical context, preparing you for a successful conducting career.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Master of Music in Conducting: The Oakland University Advantage
Our Master of Music in Conducting features renowned faculty from diverse backgrounds and fosters a vibrant atmosphere for musical and intellectual growth. Located near Flint and Detroit, Michigan, our accredited School of Music, Theatre and Dance offers an abundance of teaching, performance and research opportunities to prepare music majors for successful careers.
As a conducting major, you'll have access to:
A comprehensive music education:
Oakland’s master’s degree in music provides a well-rounded education, preparing you for a successful career as an instrumental or choral music conductor. Delve into score analysis, rehearsal techniques and leadership skills while honing your artistry as a music conductor.
Expert faculty:
Our Master of Music in Conducting features dedicated, accomplished musicians and passionate educators who are committed to your growth as a music conductor. As a music major, you’ll work closely with internationally and nationally renowned faculty in a vibrant musical community. They’ll guide you through advanced conducting techniques, historical context and various musical works to nurture your talents and prepare you for success in your career.
A program that fosters artistic growth:
As an Oakland music major, you’ll join a vibrant musical community that encourages artistic growth, collaboration and innovation. With our Master of Music in Conducting, you’ll engage with like-minded peers and form valuable industry connections to broaden your horizons as a skilled and accomplished music conductor.
Tailored specializations:
Customize your Master of Music in Conducting to align with your career aspirations by specializing in instrumental and/or choral conducting. Our degree in music prioritizes your unique interests and goals, ensuring a tailored and fulfilling experience.
Performance opportunities:
Oakland University offers ample opportunities for music majors to enhance their skills and gain valuable stage experience. Participate in diverse ensembles like our symphony orchestra, wind symphony, jazz band, world music, choir or chamber groups. Collaborate, explore genres and showcase your talent in our state-of-the-art facilities while fostering community and enriching your musicianship.
What Can You Do With a Master’s Degree in Music Conducting?
OU’s Master of Music in Conducting opens doors to exciting career opportunities in the world of music. Our graduates gain recognition for their artistry, leadership and profound musical understanding as accomplished music conductors. With our master’s degree in music, you’ll gain the knowledge and skills you need to further your education at the Ph.D. level or pursue rewarding roles such as:
Orchestra conductor
Choir director
Music educator
Music/artistic director
Music consultant
Master’s in Music Conducting Curriculum: What You’ll Learn
To be eligible for the Master of Music in Conducting program, you must have a bachelor’s degree in music from an accredited institution or its U.S. equivalent. The program consists of 32 credits, and you’ll have the opportunity to choose a specialization in instrumental and/or choral conducting. Students must complete core requirements, major requirements and a culminating project, which includes a master’s recital and an oral examination.
Sample course offerings include:
Seminar in Medieval and Renaissance Music
Seminar in Baroque and Classical Music
Seminar in Music from 1800 to Present
Analytical Techniques in Tonal Music
Analysis of Post-1900 Music
Theories of Rhythm and Meter
Advanced Choral Interpretation and Conducting Techniques
Advanced Instrumental Interpretation and Conducting Techniques
Conducting Apprenticeship
You can also tailor your Master of Music in Conducting to your interests with a wide range of electives in areas such as orchestration, literature, analysis, voice, diction and score study.
Master of Music in Conducting Resources
Academic Requirements
School of Music, Theatre and Dance
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Master’s Degree in Music Conducting
Not sure if the Master of Music in Conducting is right for you? Check out these other music majors at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Master of Music in Music Education
Master of Music in Performance
Master of Music in Pedagogy
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

