URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/criminal-justice/

Bachelor of Arts
Criminal Justice
Earn a criminal justice degree that prepares you for the careers of the 21st century.
There’s a lot more to a criminal justice career than what you see on Law & Order. Criminal justice majors at Oakland University get a big-picture education that covers the full spectrum of criminal justice careers. You’ll learn about policing, homeland security, cybersecurity, corrections, data analysis, and other branches of criminal justice. Our criminal justice degree also addresses social factors that influence crime and law enforcement, including race, ethnicity, and religion. Agencies actively recruit our criminal justice majors for internships because our students are mature and well-prepared. With optional concentrations in homeland security and information security and assurance, Oakland University’s criminal justice degree provides you with an excellent foundation for a successful criminal justice career.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
There’s a lot more to a criminal justice career than what you see on Law & Order. Criminal justice majors at Oakland University get a big-picture education that covers the full spectrum of criminal justice careers. You’ll learn about policing, homeland security, cybersecurity, corrections, data analysis, and other branches of criminal justice. Our criminal justice degree also addresses social factors that influence crime and law enforcement, including race, ethnicity, and religion. Agencies actively recruit our criminal justice majors for internships because our students are mature and well-prepared. With optional concentrations in homeland security and information security and assurance, Oakland University’s criminal justice degree provides you with an excellent foundation for a successful criminal justice career.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Criminal Justice Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
Our reputation as one of the region’s best colleges for criminal justice rests on several factors. More broadly, we have a holistic perspective that equips criminal justice majors to think at a systemic level, with the ability to address crime’s underlying causes and long-range effects.
You’ll benefit from our criminal justice program’s:
One-of-a-kind internships.
We offer extraordinary internship opportunities that immerse criminal justice majors in the profession. You’ll complete a mandatory internship as part of the criminal justice degree, with the chance to work in settings such as substance abuse centers, correctional facilities, probation offices, police departments, juvenile detention centers, and corporate IT security operations. You’ll acquire hundreds of hours of experience that can vault you to the top of the job applicant pool.
To learn more about the criminal justice internship and the internship course,
visit the criminal justice internship resources
Interdisciplinary structure.
You’ll fulfill some of the criminal justice degree‘s requirements with one or more courses in information technology, business, public administration, international studies, or other disciplines. This unusual breadth increases your ability to connect crime to underlying societal factors, while widening your range of criminal justice career options.
Practical, results-oriented skills.
Our criminal justice degree equips you with a broad base of skills that are in high demand. You’ll learn to write effectively, conduct research, analyze data, think critically, and collaborate across jurisdictions and professional disciplines. The program culminates in a capstone project that ties it all together and showcases your skills.
Career specializations.
Homeland security and cybersecurity are two of the fastest-growing criminal justice careers. Our criminal justice degree offers optional concentrations in both areas that enable you to work with pioneering faculty, advanced technology, and real-world partners.
Flexibility.
Whether or not you choose a specialization in information security or homeland security, our criminal justice degree includes an extremely broad range of electives. Through your selection of courses, you can personalize the criminal justice major to fit your academic and career objectives.
What can you do with a criminal justice degree?
Criminal Justice Careers
Our criminal justice degree has modernized to a level that reflects the new generation of criminal justice careers. You can find opportunities in areas such as:
Cybersecurity
Corrections
Parole and probation
Border security
Computer forensics
Customs enforcement
Natural resource protection
Intellectual property theft
Fraud investigation
Juvenile corrections
Policing
Private security
Victim advocacy
Case management
Policy analysis
Law
Criminal Justice Degree: What You’ll Study
The criminal justice degree begins with core coursework in criminology, law, research, and statistics.  You’ll then choose electives from very broad range of areas that include (but are not limited to):
Substance abuse
Race and ethnicity
Cybercrime
White collar crime
Threat assessment
Terrorism and homeland security
Information privacy
International politics
Civil rights
Constitutional law
Religion, politics, and culture
Middle Eastern culture and politics
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

