URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/bachelor-science-cybersecurity/

Bachelor of Science
Cybersecurity
Build cutting-edge skills in cybersecurity with our Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity program.
Societies and nations across the globe continue to increase their reliance on computers, artificial intelligence and the internet to stay connected and share vital information. Combine this reliance with national concerns for the safety of everyone online, and there’s an unprecedented need for skilled cybersecurity experts with understanding of the social, ethical, legal and policy aspects of computing.
Earning a Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity from Oakland University will prepare you to respond to this need and pursue diverse careers in industry, as well as graduate programs to continue honing your skills. You may be wondering, “What can you do with a cybersecurity degree?” When you major in cybersecurity at OU, you’ll work closely with experienced faculty mentors to build the knowledge and understanding needed to pursue exciting careers in technology, law, government or education.
With a bachelor’s in cybersecurity, you’ll gain both theoretical and hands-on technical skills to set yourself apart from others and begin a professional journey filled with lifelong learning and leadership opportunities.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Societies and nations across the globe continue to increase their reliance on computers, artificial intelligence and the internet to stay connected and share vital information. Combine this reliance with national concerns for the safety of everyone online, and there’s an unprecedented need for skilled cybersecurity experts with understanding of the social, ethical, legal and policy aspects of computing.
Earning a Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity from Oakland University will prepare you to respond to this need and pursue diverse careers in industry, as well as graduate programs to continue honing your skills. You may be wondering, “What can you do with a cybersecurity degree?” When you major in cybersecurity at OU, you’ll work closely with experienced faculty mentors to build the knowledge and understanding needed to pursue exciting careers in technology, law, government or education.
With a bachelor’s in cybersecurity, you’ll gain both theoretical and hands-on technical skills to set yourself apart from others and begin a professional journey filled with lifelong learning and leadership opportunities.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Bachelor’s Degree in Cybersecurity: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland University’s Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity program was designed to build on the strengths of our existing computing programs and help cybersecurity majors become well-rounded students with a balance between technical knowledge and a solid understanding of how technology impacts individuals, communities, law and policy.
Benefits for our cybersecurity students include:
One-of-a-kind research opportunities:
OU has partnered with Etsy to offer
female cybersecurity students grants
to attend Hacker School — a three-month immersive training program for enhancing your programming skills. Additionally,
the ACM Women’s Council (ACM-W)
, along with Wipro Technologies, offers support for female undergraduate or graduate cybersecurity students who wish to attend research conferences.
Professional skills:
When you major in cybersecurity at OU, you’ll learn the importance of collaboration in addressing some of the most pressing issues in cybersecurity. Whether you’re investigating a data breach or developing a new firewall, you’ll need input from other teams and departments within your organization. That’s why the Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity program emphasizes professional traits such as communication, ethics, leadership and teamwork.
World-renowned cybersecurity experts:
As you earn your bachelor’s in cybersecurity, you will have many opportunities to work face-to-face with our outstanding
faculty
, who bring their decades of experience in cybersecurity and education into the classroom to help you answer that important question, “What can you do with a cybersecurity degree to make the world around you a better place?”
What Can You Do With a Cybersecurity Degree?
Earning a Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity from OU unlocks the door to a variety of careers throughout some of the fastest-growing industries in the country. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, careers for information security analysts and cybersecurity experts are expected to grow up to 32% by 2032 — about five times the national average for other occupational fields.
Whether you want to work for a private corporation, a government agency or a nonprofit, the technical skills and professional traits you’ll build as a cybersecurity major at OU will make you an impressive candidate.
Many cybersecurity students choose to continue their education in a
graduate program
to further enhance their career and salary potential. Our bachelor’s in cybersecurity will give you a strong foundation to build upon throughout your academic and professional career.
Earning a Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity from OU can prepare you for diverse roles throughout many industries, including:
Systems security engineer
Information systems security manager
Cybersecurity administrator
Cybersecurity engineer
IT security analyst
Educator
Security risk analyst
Systems administrator
Cybersecurity instructor
Security researcher
Top Courses for Cybersecurity Majors
The curriculum in our Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity will introduce you to the foundational topics in math, computing and professional subjects that will be necessary as you transition from student to professional. Your bachelor’s in cybersecurity program will include core cybersecurity courses, professional subject courses and advanced programming classes — all held in our state-of-the-art
labs and classrooms.
We offer many unique elective offerings for you to take as you advance in the program to dive deeper into the topics that interest you most. This lets you tailor your Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity to your personal and professional career goals.
A few of the exciting courses you can take when you major in cybersecurity at OU include:
Network Security
Cybercrime
Artificial Intelligence
Mobile Security
Automotive Security
Immersive Python
Complex Variables
Computer Algebra
Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity Program Resources
Major Requirements
Computer Science and Engineering Department
School of Engineering and Computer Science
Programs Related to the Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity
Not sure if the bachelor’s in cybersecurity is right for you? Check out these other undergraduate degree programs at Oakland and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Bachelor of Science in Information Technology
Bachelor of Science in Artificial Intelligence
Bachelor of Science Engineering in Computer Engineering
Current Cybersecurity Internships
IT Intern - Cyber Security Risk & Compliance - Governance at PSEG - Public Service Enterprise Group
IT Intern - IT DR Governance at PSEG - Public Service Enterprise Group
IT Intern - Cyber Security Risk & Compliance at PSEG - Public Service Enterprise Group
Intern, Cyber Security at Somos
Intern - Corporate IT, Information Security, Emerging Technologies at Vertex, Inc
Protiviti Technology Consulting Intern - 2026 at Protiviti
STEM Intern - Information Technology at CH2M HILL BWXT West Valley, LLC
MIT Beaver Works - CyberOps Teaching Assistant at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)
Information Security Summer 2025 Internship at Allianz Life
Cyber Security Intern at ABM Industries Inc.
Cyber Security Intern at North American Dental Group
Cybersecurity Summer Intern at VanEck
Engineering Summer Intern - 9603BR at Savannah River Nuclear Solutions, LLC
Teaching Assistant: Cybersecurity (Summer 2025) at National Student Leadership Conference
Cybersecurity Intern at Quartz Health Solutions, Inc.
FBI Critical Incident Response Group at Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education
Product Support Intern- Summer 2025 at Sierra Nevada Corporation
Internship with Harvard-based Non-profit (fully remote) at humanID
Product Support Intern at Sierra Nevada Corporation
Cybersecurity Software Engineer Co-Op at Schneider Electric
Summer 2025 Internship, IT Security at Under Armour
SAP Analyst Intern - Summer 2025 at Olin Corporation
Cyber Engineer Intern at ICR, Inc.
IT Intern at WVU Medicine
Software/Cyber Engineer – Internship and Cooperative Education Opportunities at Northrop Grumman Corporation
Engineering Intern, Systems Engineering at equitar
Internships in Systems/Mechanical/Aerospace Engineering at MITRE Corporation
Internships in Cyber or Information Security at MITRE Corporation
2025 Summer Internship | Global Information Security at Royal Caribbean Group
IT Intern at INROADS
Engineer Internship or Cooperative Education at Northrop Grumman Corporation
Technology Services Summer Intern (Paid) (Fort Worth, TX) 2025 at BNSF Railway
2025 Guardian Summer Intern, Cyber Security Assurance at Guardian Life Insurance Company
2025 Engineering Summer Analyst Program at Goldman Sachs
Protiviti Technology Consulting Intern - 2025 at Protiviti
+ Show More
- Show Less
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

