URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/master-science-cybersecurity/

Master of Science
Cybersecurity
Enhance your cybersecurity expertise with a Master of Science in Cybersecurity focused on practical application in a changing world.
Around the world, technology is improving at a rapid rate. From artificial intelligence and electric vehicles to virtual reality and smart devices, our lives are intricately intertwined with increasingly sophisticated computing tools.
As a cybersecurity expert, you understand the importance of lifelong learning and keeping up with rising technologies. When you earn a Master of Science in Cybersecurity from Oakland University, you’ll build on your undergraduate foundation and make a huge investment in your professional life — as well as the lives of those your work will help protect. Our faculty experts and immersive curriculum help us remain one of the best cybersecurity schools in the region.
You may be wondering, “What can you do with a cybersecurity degree from OU?” Whether you’re a recent graduate or a working professional with a successful career in cybersecurity, the cybersecurity master’s program will give you the advanced practical training needed to stay on top of the latest developments and take on more leadership roles. Additionally, holding a Master of Science in Cybersecurity can greatly increase your salary potential and make you a more impressive job candidate.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Around the world, technology is improving at a rapid rate. From artificial intelligence and electric vehicles to virtual reality and smart devices, our lives are intricately intertwined with increasingly sophisticated computing tools.
As a cybersecurity expert, you understand the importance of lifelong learning and keeping up with rising technologies. When you earn a Master of Science in Cybersecurity from Oakland University, you’ll build on your undergraduate foundation and make a huge investment in your professional life — as well as the lives of those your work will help protect. Our faculty experts and immersive curriculum help us remain one of the best cybersecurity schools in the region.
You may be wondering, “What can you do with a cybersecurity degree from OU?” Whether you’re a recent graduate or a working professional with a successful career in cybersecurity, the cybersecurity master’s program will give you the advanced practical training needed to stay on top of the latest developments and take on more leadership roles. Additionally, holding a Master of Science in Cybersecurity can greatly increase your salary potential and make you a more impressive job candidate.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Master of Science in Cybersecurity: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland University’s cybersecurity master’s program will provide you with advanced technical knowledge in the most important issues in the security field — including computer, network, information and software security.
You’ll complement this technical knowledge with a deeper understanding of the social, policy, ethical and legal aspects of security and privacy. Our well-rounded approach to security helps us remain one of the best cybersecurity schools in the region. Regardless of which kind of career in cybersecurity you’re interested in pursuing, our broad curriculum will prepare you to excel.
There are many other features of our Master of Science in Cybersecurity program that make us stand out from other programs around the country:
Customized cybersecurity master’s program tracks:
In our program, you decide the answer to that question, “What can you do with a cybersecurity degree?” When you begin the graduate program, you choose between two tracks: a research track and a professional track. These tracks let you design a course of study that aligns with your professional goals.
Seamless transition from B.S. to M.S.:
Our Master of Science in Cybersecurity program was designed to provide a natural continuation for students who earned their baccalaureate in computer science, information technology, computer engineering, electrical engineering, information systems, mathematics, software engineering or a related technical area. Strengthen your skills to prepare for a rewarding, advanced career in cybersecurity.
Highly respected faculty:
Thanks to small class sizes in our Master of Science in Cybersecurity program and our dedication to individualized attention, you’ll work closely with world-renowned
faculty mentors
who have decades of professional and academic experience. They bring their real-world knowledge into the classroom to help you prepare for your dream career in cybersecurity or a related field. The ongoing
research
of our faculty mentors helps make us one of the best cybersecurity schools in the area.
What Can You Do With a Cybersecurity Degree?
The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts that jobs in information security will grow up to 32% by 2032, about five times faster than average for all other occupational fields in the U.S. When you earn a Master of Science in Cybersecurity, you’ll have a significant advantage over other candidates for roles with more responsibility and leadership potential, increasing your job outlook even further.
The United States and private corporations around the world are investing billions of dollars in hiring skilled cybersecurity experts with advanced knowledge of potential threats and real-world solutions to both current and future issues. You can be on the vanguard of the future of computing with a Master of Science in Cybersecurity from Oakland University.
Graduating from a cybersecurity master’s program can give you a major advantage when applying for leadership positions throughout the industry, particularly if you are a recent graduate without a decade of work experience in cybersecurity. We also offer valuable
teaching and research assistantship opportunities
for graduate students to gain even more experience while they complete the cybersecurity master’s program.
Some of the executive careers in cybersecurity you could pursue with a Master of Science in Cybersecurity include:
Information system security manager
IT and cybersecurity manager
Senior cybersecurity analyst
Cybersecurity trainer
Global director of cybersecurity policy
Director of information and security and privacy
Senior advisor in cyber intelligence
Top Courses in the Master of Science in Cybersecurity Program
Our cybersecurity master’s program features a rigorous curriculum that includes foundation courses in topics such as cloud computing, database systems and advanced computer networks. These courses will give you a solid base that will let you fully immerse yourself in your professional or research track classes and electives.
Other features that make us one of the best cybersecurity schools in the region are our cutting-edge r
esearch centers and state-of-the-art labs and classrooms
— all outfitted with the latest hardware and software used by professionals in the field every day.
Depending on whether you choose the professional or the research track, some of the courses you can take in the Master of Science in Cybersecurity program include:
Mathematics and Cryptology
IS Privacy
Cyberlaw, Forensics and Electronic Discovery
Software Security
Master of Science in Cybersecurity Program Resources
Program Requirements
Computer Science and Engineering Department
School of Engineering and Computer Science
Programs Related to the Master of Science in Cybersecurity
Not sure if the cybersecurity master’s program is right for you? Check out these other graduate degree programs at Oakland and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence
Master of Science in Computer Science
Master of Science in Embedded Systems
Master of Science in Software Engineering and Information Technology
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

