URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/bachelor-arts-dance/

Bachelor of Arts
Dance
Embark on an artistic journey that blends dance education with live performances, expert mentorship and hands-on career preparation
Oakland University’s Bachelor of Arts in Dance features a comprehensive dance specialization harmonized with a liberal arts curriculum.
With our accredited dance degree, you’ll enhance your proficiency in articulating ideas about dance and related subjects within the broader context of sciences, humanities, social sciences and the arts. This preparation empowers you to use your knowledge and experience as a dance major to succeed in a wide variety of careers. Backed with a profound understanding of the impact of dance on society, you’ll be well prepared for a promising future in arts administration, dance school entrepreneurship, dance-related business, performance and more.
Discover OU’s Bachelor of Arts in Dance and get ready to make your mark in the global dance arena.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University’s Bachelor of Arts in Dance features a comprehensive dance specialization harmonized with a liberal arts curriculum.
With our accredited dance degree, you’ll enhance your proficiency in articulating ideas about dance and related subjects within the broader context of sciences, humanities, social sciences and the arts. This preparation empowers you to use your knowledge and experience as a dance major to succeed in a wide variety of careers. Backed with a profound understanding of the impact of dance on society, you’ll be well prepared for a promising future in arts administration, dance school entrepreneurship, dance-related business, performance and more.
Discover OU’s Bachelor of Arts in Dance and get ready to make your mark in the global dance arena.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Bachelor of Arts in Dance: The Oakland University Advantage
Expand your understanding of dance with Oakland’s extraordinary resources, including two professional dance companies in residence. Our Bachelor of Arts in Dance isn’t just a degree; it’s a journey alongside seasoned professionals, offering unmatched mentorship for dance majors.
OU’s Bachelor of Arts in Dance provides:
Renowned dance faculty:
Learn from highly qualified faculty at Oakland and gain more than just technical skills. They share their firsthand knowledge and experience, instilling the practical skills, commitment and habits needed for a thriving career in dance.
Learning that comes alive:
With OU’s dance degree, you’ll collaborate with top-notch performers and choreographers, including those in Take Root and Eisenhower Dance Detroit, our professional dance companies in residence. Or take your learning abroad to study dance history and evolution in Germany.
An empowering experience:
One-on-one interactions with dance faculty will amplify your strengths, pushing you to take risks and empowering you to unleash your full artistic potential. The confidence you build will take you far in your dance career.
Newly renovated space:
Home to OU’s School of Music, Theatre and Dance, Varner Hall recently underwent state-of-the-art renovations to give our dance majors the space and support they need to nurture their creative ambitions.
Opportunity to be a dance major for a day:
Not quite sure if a dance degree is right for you? Visit campus to get a feel for what it’s like to be a dance major through classes, rehearsals, observing a masterclass and more.
What Can You Do With a Bachelor of Arts in Dance?
According to the U.S
.
Bureau of Labor Statistics, employment for dancers and choreographers is projected to grow faster than the average for all occupations through 2032.
This growth is partly driven by social media, which allows dancers and choreographers to showcase their talents to diverse global audiences.
Additionally, larger cities such as Detroit, where arts and culture thrive, offer abundant opportunities, including positions with dance companies and private studios.
OU’s dance degree offers foundational knowledge and practical experience for a variety of careers in dance:
Arts administrator
Choreographer
Community arts staff
Conservatory teacher
Dance therapist
Dancer
Fitness instructor
Production designer
Researcher
Plus, you’ll take courses like Opportunities and Careers in Dance, which allow you to explore all the possibilities and career paths available upon graduation.
Admission to Oakland University’s Bachelor of Arts in Dance requires an entrance audition for incoming freshmen and a major-standing audition midway through the program.
Learn more about our audition process for dance majors.
Top Courses for the Bachelor of Arts in Dance
In addition to Oakland’s general education requirements, dance majors complete two semesters of modern technique from each level, plus 12 credits in ballet. Other courses include:
Basic Musicianship for Dancers
Dance Conditioning/Pilates Mat
Dance History and Appreciation
Dance in Film
Dance Pedagogy
Kinesiology for the Dancer
Opportunities and Careers in Dance
World Dance Traditions
Our undergraduate dance degree also requires a freshman seminar, major standing review, senior interview, performance production requirement and events attendance requirement.
Bachelor of Arts in Dance Resources
Major Requirements
School of Music, Theatre and Dance
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Bachelor of Arts in Dance
Not sure if OU’s dance major is right for you? Check out some of our other undergraduate degree programs and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Bachelor of Fine Arts in Acting
Bachelor of Fine Arts in Dance
Bachelor of Fine Arts in Musical Theatre
Current Dance, B.A. Internships
Internship Opportunities at BodyStories: Teresa Fellion Dance
Teacher for Middle School Girls' Access Program at The Aspire Program at Hathaway Brown School
Dance Instructor (Specialist) at City of Farmington Hills
After School Dance Teacher at Euro School of Tennis
Language School Teacher at Academic Programs International
Summer Dance Director at Camp Laurel
Dance Director at Camp Chateaugay
Visual/Performing Arts Teacher, 2025-26 School Year at School District of Philadelphia
Emcee (MC) / Crowd Motivator / DJ Assistant at Stealth DJ's Mobile Disc Jockey Service
After School Dance Teacher at Euro School of Tennis
United Shore Professional Baseball League - 2025 Summer Entertainment Internship at United Shore Professional Baseball League
Ceramics Teacher and Camp Counselor at Pocono Springs Camp
Gymnastics Coach and Camp Counselor at Pocono Springs Camp
Dance Instructor/Camp Counselor at Camp Lohikan
Summer Camp Dance Instructor at Berkshire Lake Arts Camp
Dance Education Internship at Berkshire Lake Arts Camp
Summer Dance Instructor and Camp Counselor at Camp Danbee
Basketball Coach and Camp Counselor at Pocono Springs Camp
Teacher - Special Areas Dance/Theater at Union Elementary School District #62
Performing Arts Staff at Camp Cayuga
Pottery Wheel Instructors at Camp Cayuga
Skateboard Instructor at Camp Cayuga
Inline Skating Instructor at Camp Cayuga
Horse Jumping Instructors at Camp Cayuga
Circus Arts Instructor at Camp Cayuga
Survival Skills Training Instructor at Camp Cayuga
Ropes Course Instructor at Camp Cayuga
Paintball Instructors at Camp Cayuga
Camp Counselor for children at Camp Cayuga
Soccer Coach and Camp Counselor at Pocono Springs Camp
Tennis and Pickleball Coach and Camp Counselor at Pocono Springs Camp
Sports Coach and Camp Counselor at Pocono Springs Camp
Dance Teacher, HS (2025-2026) at Fairfax County VA Public Schools
Archery Instructor and Camp Counselor at Pocono Springs Camp
STEM Teacher and Camp Counselor at Pocono Springs Camp
Swim Instructor and Camp Counselor at Pocono Springs Camp
Ceramics Instructors at Camp Cayuga
Martial Arts Instructor at Camp Cayuga
Half-Pipe Instructors at Camp Cayuga
Zip Line Instructors at Camp Cayuga
Archery and Riflery Instructors at Camp Cayuga
Resident Camp Counselor at YMCA Camp Pepin/Red Wing YMCA
Flying Trapeze Instructors at Camp Cayuga
Advanced Recreational Gymnastics Leader at Viking Gymnastics & Dance
Education Majors: Summer Internship at Camp Wicosuta
Arts and Crafts Camp Counselor at Pocono Springs Camp
Physical Education Teacher at Fort Mill School District
YOUTH SPORTS COACH at National Academy of Athletics
Musical Theatre Choreographer at Greensboro Performing Arts
Dance Instructor at Nonprofit Summer Camp at Project Morry
Cabin Counselors / Activity Instructors at Camp Lochearn for Girls
VAPA Coach / Peer Mentor - Beaumont, CA at Elevo Learning
Guitar Instructor at Flint Institute of Music
Early Childhood Music Instructor at Flint Institute of Music
Percussion Instructor at Flint Institute of Music
Violin Instructor at Flint Institute of Music
Voice Instructor at Flint Institute of Music
Dance Internship Summer 2025 at Camp Wicosuta
Psychology Internship Summer Camp at Camp Wicosuta
Ballroom Dance Instructor at Fred Astaire Dance Studio– West Springfield
Flexologist/Stretch Practitioner at Stretchlab Libertyville
Youth Dance Instructor at The Explorer Club
Summer Camp Counselor at Camp CHEN-A-WANDA
Stretch Therapist at LYMBR
Stretch Therapist at LYMBR
Stretch Therapist at LYMBR
Stretch Therapist at LYMBR
Dance Teacher Internship at AVERY RANCH DANCE & MUSIC
Dance Teacher at Delta-T Group
Elementary Spanish Teacher at Rise Education
Assistant Principal of Specialty  at Zeta Charter Schools
Stretch Therapist at LYMBR
Stretch Therapist - Hiring Exercise Science Grads! at LYMBR
Flex Teacher at Phalen Leadership Academies
Dance Teacher, HS (2024-2025) at Fairfax County VA Public Schools
+ Show More
- Show Less
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

