URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/dance-bfa/

Bachelor of Fine Arts
Dance
Our dance degree combines first-rate artistic training with performing experience, professional mentorship, and practical career preparation.
Oakland University’s Bachelor of Fine Arts in Dance provides exceptional training for careers in dance. Known for its high-profile faculty and successful alumni, our college dance program offers unique opportunities to refine your talent and showcase your artistry. You’ll learn from active performers with Oakland’s two resident dance companies, developing professional polish and maturity that help you stand out in a competitive field. Our dance degree also provides you with a strong academic background that qualifies you for various types of dance careers. You’ll graduate with superior studio training, extensive stage experience, and a dance degree that’s widely respected.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University’s Bachelor of Fine Arts in Dance provides exceptional training for careers in dance. Known for its high-profile faculty and successful alumni, our college dance program offers unique opportunities to refine your talent and showcase your artistry. You’ll learn from active performers with Oakland’s two resident dance companies, developing professional polish and maturity that help you stand out in a competitive field. Our dance degree also provides you with a strong academic background that qualifies you for various types of dance careers. You’ll graduate with superior studio training, extensive stage experience, and a dance degree that’s widely respected.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Bachelor’s Degree in Dance: The Oakland University Advantage
With two professional dance companies in residence, Oakland’s dance degree offers unusually robust apprenticeship opportunities. You’ll train and perform alongside seasoned dancers from Eisenhower Dance Detroit and Take Root, acquiring a level of mentorship that few college dance programs can offer.
In addition, our bachelor’s degree in dance stands out for its:
Individual instruction.
Our dance program is intimate and tight-knit. You’ll enjoy one-on-one interaction with instructors who help you build on your personal strengths, encourage you to take risks, and empower you to maximize your gifts.
Real-world opportunities.
In addition to training with Oakland’s two in-residence dance companies, you’ll have the chance to learn and perform in the cradle of modern dance: Berlin, Germany. This exceptional study abroad experience broadens your understanding of dance history and evolution, while adding depth to your resume.
Track record of success.
Graduates of Oakland’s dance degree have a long tradition of high-achieving alumni. Our alumni routinely go on to professional success in performance, choreography, criticism, scholarship, and other careers in dance.
Highly qualified faculty.
You’ll learn from (and perform with) professionals who possess a wealth of firsthand knowledge. Our dance faculty offer far more than technical training, teaching you the commitment, habits, and practical skills necessary to sustain a successful career in dance.
Supportive culture.
Oakland’s dance degree is built on a culture of collaboration, not competition. We promote a family-like atmosphere of mutual support and encouragement, celebrating the triumphs of every student and welcoming individuals from diverse populations.
What Can You Do With a Degree in Dance?
Oakland University’s dance degree offers practical training for a wide variety of careers in dance. Our graduates have a strong track record of success in various dance-related professions, including:
Dance performance
Choreography
Dance instruction
Dance criticism / writing
Arts administration
Dance studio ownership
Research and scholarship
Bachelor of Fine Arts in Dance: What You’ll Learn
Admission to Oakland University’s Bachelor of Fine Arts in Dance requires an entrance audition for incoming freshmen, and a major-standing audition midway through the program.
Dance majors complete four full years (eight semesters) of training in both ballet and modern dance. You’ll also take more than a dozen required courses and performance units, in subjects such as:
Dance History
Improvisation
Choreography
Kinesiology for the Dancer
Creative Dance for Children
Contemporary Dance
Dance Production
Acting for Non-Theatre Majors
The dance degree concludes with lab courses and apprenticeships with Oakland’s student dance companies or professional in-residence dance organizations.
Bachelor of Fine Arts in Dance Program Resources
Major Requirements
Minor Requirements
School of Music, Theatre and Dance
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Bachelor of Fine Arts in Dance
Not sure if the dance degree is right for you? Check out these other undergraduate degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Bachelor of Fine Arts in Acting
Bachelor of Fine Arts in Musical Theatre
Bachelor of Fine Arts in Theatre Design and Technology
Current Dance, B.F.A. Internships
Internship Opportunities at BodyStories: Teresa Fellion Dance
Teacher for Middle School Girls' Access Program at The Aspire Program at Hathaway Brown School
Dance Instructor (Specialist) at City of Farmington Hills
After School Dance Teacher at Euro School of Tennis
Language School Teacher at Academic Programs International
Summer Dance Director at Camp Laurel
Dance Director at Camp Chateaugay
Visual/Performing Arts Teacher, 2025-26 School Year at School District of Philadelphia
Emcee (MC) / Crowd Motivator / DJ Assistant at Stealth DJ's Mobile Disc Jockey Service
After School Dance Teacher at Euro School of Tennis
United Shore Professional Baseball League - 2025 Summer Entertainment Internship at United Shore Professional Baseball League
Ceramics Teacher and Camp Counselor at Pocono Springs Camp
Gymnastics Coach and Camp Counselor at Pocono Springs Camp
Dance Instructor/Camp Counselor at Camp Lohikan
Summer Camp Dance Instructor at Berkshire Lake Arts Camp
Dance Education Internship at Berkshire Lake Arts Camp
Summer Dance Instructor and Camp Counselor at Camp Danbee
Basketball Coach and Camp Counselor at Pocono Springs Camp
Teacher - Special Areas Dance/Theater at Union Elementary School District #62
Performing Arts Staff at Camp Cayuga
Pottery Wheel Instructors at Camp Cayuga
Skateboard Instructor at Camp Cayuga
Inline Skating Instructor at Camp Cayuga
Horse Jumping Instructors at Camp Cayuga
Circus Arts Instructor at Camp Cayuga
Survival Skills Training Instructor at Camp Cayuga
Ropes Course Instructor at Camp Cayuga
Paintball Instructors at Camp Cayuga
Camp Counselor for children at Camp Cayuga
Soccer Coach and Camp Counselor at Pocono Springs Camp
Tennis and Pickleball Coach and Camp Counselor at Pocono Springs Camp
Sports Coach and Camp Counselor at Pocono Springs Camp
Dance Teacher, HS (2025-2026) at Fairfax County VA Public Schools
Archery Instructor and Camp Counselor at Pocono Springs Camp
STEM Teacher and Camp Counselor at Pocono Springs Camp
Swim Instructor and Camp Counselor at Pocono Springs Camp
Ceramics Instructors at Camp Cayuga
Martial Arts Instructor at Camp Cayuga
Half-Pipe Instructors at Camp Cayuga
Zip Line Instructors at Camp Cayuga
Archery and Riflery Instructors at Camp Cayuga
Resident Camp Counselor at YMCA Camp Pepin/Red Wing YMCA
Flying Trapeze Instructors at Camp Cayuga
Advanced Recreational Gymnastics Leader at Viking Gymnastics & Dance
Education Majors: Summer Internship at Camp Wicosuta
Arts and Crafts Camp Counselor at Pocono Springs Camp
Physical Education Teacher at Fort Mill School District
YOUTH SPORTS COACH at National Academy of Athletics
Musical Theatre Choreographer at Greensboro Performing Arts
Dance Instructor at Nonprofit Summer Camp at Project Morry
Cabin Counselors / Activity Instructors at Camp Lochearn for Girls
VAPA Coach / Peer Mentor - Beaumont, CA at Elevo Learning
Guitar Instructor at Flint Institute of Music
Early Childhood Music Instructor at Flint Institute of Music
Percussion Instructor at Flint Institute of Music
Violin Instructor at Flint Institute of Music
Voice Instructor at Flint Institute of Music
Dance Internship Summer 2025 at Camp Wicosuta
Psychology Internship Summer Camp at Camp Wicosuta
Ballroom Dance Instructor at Fred Astaire Dance Studio– West Springfield
Flexologist/Stretch Practitioner at Stretchlab Libertyville
Youth Dance Instructor at The Explorer Club
Summer Camp Counselor at Camp CHEN-A-WANDA
Stretch Therapist at LYMBR
Stretch Therapist at LYMBR
Stretch Therapist at LYMBR
Stretch Therapist at LYMBR
Dance Teacher Internship at AVERY RANCH DANCE & MUSIC
Dance Teacher at Delta-T Group
Elementary Spanish Teacher at Rise Education
Assistant Principal of Specialty  at Zeta Charter Schools
Stretch Therapist at LYMBR
Stretch Therapist - Hiring Exercise Science Grads! at LYMBR
Flex Teacher at Phalen Leadership Academies
Dance Teacher, HS (2024-2025) at Fairfax County VA Public Schools
+ Show More
- Show Less
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

