URL: https://oakland.edu/business/graduate-certificates/data-science/

Data Science Graduate Certificate
New for Fall 2024
Unlock your potential with a Data Science Graduate Certificate, designed to empower you with the analytical and technical skills crucial for data-driven decision-making. Gain a competitive edge through hands-on learning and problem-solving in data science.
Request Program Information
PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS
Apply Now
Overview
The goal of the program is to explicitly augment the focused discipline-specific education of Science, Technology, Engineering, the Arts and Mathematics (STEAM) graduate students with data science skills. The Graduate Certificate in Data Science is awarded upon satisfactory completion of a minimum of 16 graduate-level credits in an
approved program of study (see
Program Requirements
)
.
In this program, students will explore a range of analytical and technical skills to support data-driven decision making including:
Statistical analysis
Machine learning
Predictive and prescriptive modeling
Big data analytics
Contact Us
Graduate Business Programs
(248) 370-3287
[email protected]
Audience
This graduate certificate program is ideal for business professionals who seek to enhance their expertise with cutting-edge data science skills. In today's data-driven landscape, the ability to interpret and leverage big data is crucial for informed decision making and strategic planning.
Whether you're an IT professional, data professional, business analyst, research scientist, product manager or work in any other business/STEM field, this interdisciplinary program will equip you with the analytical and technical capabilities needed to solve complex problems and drive innovation within your organization.
The program is interdisciplinary in nature and designed to provide students from different majors the ability to solve complex problems through the backdrop of data science. It is ideal for the working professional in any field who is looking to gain knowledge in data science.
How to Apply
Admission Requirements
An earned baccalaureate degree from a regionally accredited institution OR a degree equivalent to a four-year U.S. baccalaureate degree from a college or university of government-recognized standing.
How to Apply
The application process requires submission of the following:
Online
Application for Admission
from the Graduate School
Curriculum Vitae or Resumé - uploaded after online application is submitted
Two email addresses for individuals who will write your recommendations - added after online application is submitted
Official transcripts from all previous colleges and universities attended sent to OU
International students who have not earned a baccalaureate degree from a U.S. college or university or at least 24 credits from a U.S school, will have additional application requirements:
A transcript evaluation (for transcripts from a college or university outside of the United States)
TOEFL Exam Scores (for non-native English speakers unless they have a baccalaureate degree from a U.S. college or university or at least 24 credits from a U.S. school)
School of Business Administration
Elliott Hall, Room 427
275 Varner Drive
Rochester, MI 48309-4485
(location map)
School of Business Administration
Elliott Hall, Room 427
275 Varner Drive
Rochester, MI 48309-4485
(location map)

