URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/master-of-education-in-early-childhood-education/

Master of Education
Early Childhood Education
Acquire hands-on experience and practical skills in our early childhood education master’s program.
Oakland University’s Master of Education in Early Childhood Education qualifies you to work with children from birth to age 8 in schools, community learning centers, and other ECE settings. Designed for working adults who are balancing graduate school with full-time jobs, our early childhood education master’s degree equips you to mobilize a broad range of resources on behalf of young children and their families. You’ll learn from seasoned early childhood educators in real-world settings, getting interdisciplinary ECE training that encompasses diverse cultures, socioeconomic backgrounds, and developmental exceptionalities.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University’s Master of Education in Early Childhood Education qualifies you to work with children from birth to age 8 in schools, community learning centers, and other ECE settings. Designed for working adults who are balancing graduate school with full-time jobs, our early childhood education master’s degree equips you to mobilize a broad range of resources on behalf of young children and their families. You’ll learn from seasoned early childhood educators in real-world settings, getting interdisciplinary ECE training that encompasses diverse cultures, socioeconomic backgrounds, and developmental exceptionalities.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Master’s Degree in Early Childhood Education: The Oakland University Advantage
Widely considered one of Michigan’s top training grounds for early childhood educators, the Oakland University School of Education and Human Services maintains strong partnerships with school districts and community organizations throughout our region. You can leverage our network to develop professional connections that accelerate your early childhood education career.
Choose our early childhood education master’s degree if you seek:
Hands-on training.
In the ECE master’s program, you’ll gain knowledge and experience in early childhood theory, curriculum, play, child assessment and other early childhood education essentials.
Interdisciplinary skills.
Our master’s degree in early childhood education emphasizes whole-community support. You’ll learn to engage not only young children but also their families, while collaborating with aligned professionals in special education, mental health, social work, health care, and other disciplines.
A focus on inclusivity.
Oakland’s far-reaching community alliances enable you to work with diverse populations from broad socioeconomic and ethnic backgrounds.
Supportive faculty relationships.
Our master’s degree program is led by seasoned early childhood educators who teach from first-hand experience. You’ll work with accomplished practitioners who offer professional guidance and mentorship in addition to academic instruction.-
Research opportunities.
To complete the master’s degree in early childhood education, you’ll design and implement an original action research project. During this year-long investigation you’ll identify questions for inquiry, develop the methodology, gather and analyze data, and write up your findings.
Flexibility and convenience.
To accommodate the schedules of working professionals, our ECE master’s degree program uses a combination of evening and online classes.
What Can You Do With a Master’s Degree in Early Childhood Education?
If you hold an active Michigan teaching license at the elementary level, our
early childhood education master’s program
includes coursework that makes you eligible for
Early Childhood (ZS) endorsement
.
Whether or not you earn the endorsement, you’ll be qualified for a range of
jobs in early childhood education
upon completion of the master’s degree. Some examples include:
Elementary school teacher
A Teaching Certificate is needed
Preschool teacher
Childcare center director
Special educator
A Teaching Certificate is needed
Head Start program director
Before- and after-school program leader
Program evaluator
Diagnostic and testing coordinator
Master’s Degree in Early Childhood Education
: What You’ll Study
The Early Childhood Education master’s degree requires nine courses totaling 36 credits. The courses are as follows:
Theories of
Child Development and Education
Family, Child and Learning in Cultural Context
Applied Developmental Principles
Adult-Child Interaction: Play and Mediation of Learning
Observation and Assessment of the Young Child
Teacher as Child Advocate and Adult Educator
Elective
Research Project in Early Childhood Education: Phase I
Research Project in Early Childhood Education: Phase II
Master’s Degree in Early Childhood Education
Resources
Admission requirements
Program Requirements
Human Development and Child Studies Department
School of Education and Human Services
Programs Related to the Master’s Degree in Early Childhood Education
Not sure if the
early childhood education master’s degree
is right for you? Check out these other graduate degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Ph.D. in
Early Childhood Education
Early Childhood (ZS) Endorsement
Master of Education in Special Education
Master of Arts in Teaching in Elementary Education
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

