URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/education-specialist-degree/

Specialist Degree in
EDUCATIONAL LEADERSHIP
Reach new career heights by expanding your administrative leadership expertise in K–12 schools with an educational leadership degree from Oakland University.
OU’s accredited Education Specialist Degree (Ed.S.) positions you for success in the field of education administration. Our flexible educational leadership program offers convenient class schedules and formats, and can be completed in under two years — perfect for working educators.
As a known leader in education preparation, you’ll benefit from Oakland’s unique blend of theory and practice, including a clinical internship program, to gain hands-on administrative experience in a current K–12 setting.
After completing your educational leadership degree, you’ll be prepared to take the Michigan Administrator Certificate, which opens a world of educational leadership masters’ jobs, including positions like principal, assistant principal, curriculum director, dean and other related roles. Students, teachers and administrators will benefit from your ability to build a school culture and vision that ensures success for all.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
OU’s accredited Education Specialist Degree (Ed.S.) positions you for success in the field of education administration. Our flexible educational leadership program offers convenient class schedules and formats, and can be completed in under two years — perfect for working educators.
As a known leader in education preparation, you’ll benefit from Oakland’s unique blend of theory and practice, including a clinical internship program, to gain hands-on administrative experience in a current K–12 setting.
After completing your educational leadership degree, you’ll be prepared to take the Michigan Administrator Certificate, which opens a world of educational leadership masters’ jobs, including positions like principal, assistant principal, curriculum director, dean and other related roles. Students, teachers and administrators will benefit from your ability to build a school culture and vision that ensures success for all.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Educational Leadership Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
Our educational leadership degree offers flexible course scheduling with options to take classes online, in-person and in hybrid formats. If you start in the winter semester, you can complete the degree in just 19 months, while beginning in the fall term will take 22 months
Oakland’s Ed.S. in educational leadership features:
Theory plus a hands-on curriculum.
At Oakland, you get the best of both worlds: the opportunity to learn from seasoned K–12 administrators who have been where you’re going, and experiences that put your educational leadership knowledge into relevant practice through frontline internships.
A flexible cohort model.
We know you’re a busy educator. That’s why our Ed.S. in educational leadership is available completely online, in-person or in a hybrid format. You have the flexibility to take classes with a close-knit group of about 12 students, at your own pace and on your own schedule.
Custom career advising.
Through comprehensive advising and career services, your educational leadership degree will lead to a fulfilling career that truly makes an impact on generations of students. Plus, a faculty mentor guides you through it all — even through to graduation.
A head start on doctoral degrees.
The 20 or 28 credits earned for the Ed.S. in educational leadership can serve as cognate credit toward either an Ed.D. in organizational leadership or a Ph.D. in educational leadership at Oakland University, should you also be admitted to a doctoral program.
What Can You Do With an Educational Leadership Degree?
Oakland’s educational leadership program positions you for career success through a variety of educational leadership masters’ jobs. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, postsecondary education administrators earn an average of $96,910 annually —and the job outlook is expected to grow by 7% through 2031.
After successful completion of your Ed.S. in educational leadership, you’ll be prepared to take the Michigan Administrator Certificate, giving you the credentials needed to stand out in the job market.
Graduates are qualified for the roles and responsibilities of a school administrator, including:
Curriculum director
Dean of students
District administrator
Educational consultant
Instructional coordinator
Principal or assistant principal
Professor
Program director
Area districts report that OU grads are well-prepared for educational leadership masters’ jobs and come to their careers with confidence, knowledge and a commitment to excel in leadership roles in K–12 districts.
Educational Leadership Degree: What You’ll Learn
Approved by the Michigan Department of Education, OU’s Ed.S. in educational leadership consists of 11 courses plus a clinical internship to complement your formal coursework. You’ll have the opportunity to work in a K–12 area school and solve relevant, complex problems current administrators face.
You’ll complete a total of 34 credits with classes such as:
Curriculum and Staff Development
Educational Law
Human Resource Management and Supervision
School as a Formal Organization
School Business Management
Testing, Measurement and Data Analysis
Educational Leadership Degree Program Resources
Program Requirements
Department of Organizational Leadership
School of Education and Human Services
Programs Related to the Educational Leadership Degree
Not sure if the Ed.S. in educational leadership is right for you? Check out these other graduate degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Post-master’s Certificate in Higher Education
Post-master’s Certificate in Central Office Administration
Master of Education in Educational Leadership
Ph.D. in Educational Leadership
Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

