URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/master-education-educational-leadership/

Master of Education
Educational Leadership
Become a visionary leader for today’s classrooms with Oakland’s M.Ed. in educational leadership. Gain the knowledge and experience to build a thriving learning environment.
Do you see yourself leading a school with a clear vision, fostering positive relationships and empowering teachers and students to thrive? Oakland University’s Master of Education in Educational Leadership prepares you to do just that.
Our program, guided by expert faculty and culminating in a real-world internship, equips you with the essential skills for 21st-century school leadership. Through performance-based coursework, you’ll develop the ability to manage complex changes, drive school improvement, and graduate with the knowledge, skills and experience to excel in various leadership positions.
Oakland’s Master of Education program goes beyond traditional preparation. As part of your educational leadership degree, you’ll develop a robust e-portfolio showcasing your leadership skills, perfect for impressing potential employers and stakeholders.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Do you see yourself leading a school with a clear vision, fostering positive relationships and empowering teachers and students to thrive? Oakland University’s Master of Education in Educational Leadership prepares you to do just that.
Our program, guided by expert faculty and culminating in a real-world internship, equips you with the essential skills for 21st-century school leadership. Through performance-based coursework, you’ll develop the ability to manage complex changes, drive school improvement, and graduate with the knowledge, skills and experience to excel in various leadership positions.
Oakland’s Master of Education program goes beyond traditional preparation. As part of your educational leadership degree, you’ll develop a robust e-portfolio showcasing your leadership skills, perfect for impressing potential employers and stakeholders.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Educational Leadership Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland University’s M.Ed. in educational leadership combines practical training in administration and educational law with leadership development and curriculum expertise. You’ll graduate from our educational leadership degree program with the tools and confidence to meet the challenges of school leadership.
Benefits of OU’s M.Ed. in educational leadership include:
Flexibility:
Attend class one night a week or choose an accelerated weekend program to fit your busy schedule and graduate in less than two years.
Social justice focus:
Develop a critical lens on equity and inclusion to create a welcoming and empowering learning environment for all students.
Real-world experience:
Gain valuable hands-on experience through a culminating internship opportunity.
Professional network:
Build a strong network of peers and colleagues through the supportive cohort structure.
Advanced certification:
Pursue the necessary qualifications for administrative positions in Michigan schools with an optional State of Michigan K–12 Administrative Certificate.
What Can You Do With an Educational Leadership Degree?
Oakland’s M.Ed. in educational leadership cultivates visionary leaders who are lifelong learners. Our program fosters continuous growth, ethical practice and the ability to navigate the complexities of a diverse society. You’ll develop critical thinking, collaboration and reflection skills to empower teachers and students to thrive in a constantly changing world.
Graduates of the Master of Education in Educational Leadership program are well-prepared for building-level leadership or teacher leadership roles, such as:
Principal
Assistant principal
Dean of students
Instructional coach
New teacher mentor
Grade level or department chair
School improvement chair
Educational Leadership M.Ed. Course Highlights
Through courses like Introduction to Educational Leadership, Law for Teachers and Administrators, and Schools, Students, and Educational Equity, you’ll build a strong foundation in curriculum development, school finance and ethical leadership practices.
Culminate your Master of Education program by creating a web-based portfolio that highlights your achievements and aligns with the ISLLC School Leader Standards. This impressive portfolio will be a powerful tool for landing your dream leadership role.
Classes you can take as you earn your M.Ed. in educational leadership degree include:
Culminating Master’s Practicum
Internship for School Leaders
Introduction to Educational Leadership
Law for Teachers and Administrators
School Finance and Business Administration
Schools, Students and Educational Equity
Staff and Curriculum Development
Theories and Techniques of Leadership
In addition to receiving a Master of Education degree, students are also eligible to apply for a Michigan Administrative Certificate.
Educational Leadership M.Ed. Program Resources
Program Requirements
Department of Organizational Leadership
School of Education and Human Services
Programs Related to the M.Ed. in Educational Leadership Degree
Not sure if an educational leadership M.Ed. is right for you? Check out these other graduate degree programs at Oakland and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Education Specialist in Leadership
Master of Education in Higher Education Leadership
Master of Education in Teacher Leadership With Advanced Professional Education Certificate
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

