URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/phd-electrical-and-computer-engineering/

Doctor of Philosophy
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Oakland’s Ph.D. in electrical and computer engineering equips you to create the technology of the future.
Our electrical and computer engineering Ph.D. prepares you for leadership and research positions in government, academia, and private industry. You’ll cultivate high-level, multidisciplinary expertise that equips you to influence the future of electrical and computer engineering. Oakland University has unique partnerships with industry leaders, providing you with outstanding opportunities to collaborate on electrical and computer engineering research, attract funding, and build your professional network. Our program also stands out for its extraordinary breadth, with faculty expertise across a broad range of specializations in in electrical and computer engineering. Whether you’re interested in manufacturing, automotive, energy, communications, robotics, computer system design, or another industry, Oakland’s Ph.D. in electrical and computer engineering provides elite training and hands-on experience to support your career objective.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Our electrical and computer engineering Ph.D. prepares you for leadership and research positions in government, academia, and private industry. You’ll cultivate high-level, multidisciplinary expertise that equips you to influence the future of electrical and computer engineering. Oakland University has unique partnerships with industry leaders, providing you with outstanding opportunities to collaborate on electrical and computer engineering research, attract funding, and build your professional network. Our program also stands out for its extraordinary breadth, with faculty expertise across a broad range of specializations in in electrical and computer engineering. Whether you’re interested in manufacturing, automotive, energy, communications, robotics, computer system design, or another industry, Oakland’s Ph.D. in electrical and computer engineering provides elite training and hands-on experience to support your career objective.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland’s electrical and computer engineering Ph.D. stands out for its combination of deep specialization and interdisciplinary expertise. Our faculty and students are actively involved in some of the most exciting frontiers in electrical and computer engineering research, including (but not limited to) autonomous vehicles, augmented reality, bioengineering, digital signal processing, pattern recognition, and mechatronics.
The electrical and computer engineering Ph.D. program gives you access to:
Distinguished faculty.
You’ll work with prominent researchers who are solving key problems in electrical engineering and computer engineering. Our faculty includes national experts in robotics, signal and image processing, energy, control systems, microelectronics, and other specialties.
Institutional partnerships.
Oakland University has close R&D partnerships with government agencies and Fortune 500 corporations. These relationships routinely yield significant funding and employment opportunities for our electrical and computer engineering Ph.D. students.
Elite facilities.
The School of Engineering and Computer Science operates more than a dozen state-of-the-art labs on campus. You’ll work in professional-caliber environments equipped with the most advanced instrumentation, software, and prototyping capacity.
Applied, hands-on training.
You’ll develop practical expertise that sets you apart in the job market and in the workplace. Employers are routinely impressed by our electrical and computer engineering Ph.D. graduates’ ability to fuse theory with practice.
Immediate career opportunities.
Our electrical and computer engineering Ph.D. students routinely have multiple job offers upon graduation. You’ll have excellent opportunities for employment in academia, government, and/or private industry.
What Can You Do With an Electrical and Computer Engineering Ph.D.?
Oakland University’s Ph.D. in electrical and computer engineering equips you for leadership careers in industrial or governmental research and development, as well as academic roles.
Southeast Michigan is a global hub for many high-tech industries, and employers aggressively recruit Oakland’s Ph.D. students. Our graduates have an outstanding record in the job market, going directly into jobs in industries such as:
Automotive
Communications
Energy
Health care
Computer hardware
Computer software
Embedded Systems
Robotics
Academic research and teaching
Government research
Augmented and virtual reality
Manufacturing
Electrical and Computer Engineering Ph.D. Curriculum
The Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering requires a minimum of 80 graduate credits, comprising at least 56 credits of graduate coursework and at least 24 credits of dissertation research.
You can choose to focus your studies in any of the following seven areas:
Communications
Computer Engineering
Controls
Electromagnetics
Electronics
Embedded Systems
Energy
Mechatronics and Robotics
Signal Processing
Electrical and Computer Engineering Ph.D. Program Resources
Academic Requirements
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
School of Engineering and Computer Science
Programs Related to the Electrical and Computer Engineering Ph.D.
Not sure if the Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering is right for you? Check out these other degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Doctor of Philosophy in Systems Engineering
Doctor of Philosophy in Computer Science and Informatics
Master of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering
Master of Science in Mechatronic Systems Engineering
Master of Science in Embedded Systems
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

