URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/ms-in-ece/

Master of Science
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Maximize your career potential with an electrical and computer engineering masters degree that employers respect.
Oakland’s masters degree in electrical and computer engineering is designed for advanced professionals who want to make an impact in the field—and in their career. Available in full-time or part-time formats, our electrical and computer engineering masters degree gives you exceptional opportunities to collaborate with innovators in the classroom, the lab, and the workplace. You’ll work with cutting-edge tools and participate in research related to some of electrical and computer engineering’s most exciting frontiers, from autonomous vehicles to satellite positioning, microfabrication, energy, broadband, and beyond. Whether you’re a recent college graduate or a working adult seeking to advance your career, our masters in electrical and computer engineering qualifies you for better jobs and higher pay.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland’s masters degree in electrical and computer engineering is designed for advanced professionals who want to make an impact in the field—and in their career. Available in full-time or part-time formats, our electrical and computer engineering masters degree gives you exceptional opportunities to collaborate with innovators in the classroom, the lab, and the workplace. You’ll work with cutting-edge tools and participate in research related to some of electrical and computer engineering’s most exciting frontiers, from autonomous vehicles to satellite positioning, microfabrication, energy, broadband, and beyond. Whether you’re a recent college graduate or a working adult seeking to advance your career, our masters in electrical and computer engineering qualifies you for better jobs and higher pay.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Masters Degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland’s location in the heart of Southeast Michigan’s industrial hub yields exceptional benefits for students in our electrical and computer engineering masters program. We have active partnerships with numerous global leaders in high-tech research and development, giving you opportunities to get hands-on professional experience that stands out on your resume.
Key benefits of our masters in electrical and computer engineering include:
Professional research labs.
Oakland’s School of Engineering and Computer Science operates more than a dozen state-of-the-art labs. You’ll work in professional environments with cutting-edge resources for research, testing, and prototyping in specialties such as augmented reality, automotive mechatronics, robotics and automation, autonomous vehicles, electromagnetics, and digital signal processing.
Superior faculty.
You’ll learn from and collaborate with high-profile researchers who are active in key frontiers in electrical engineering and computer engineering. Oakland’s faculty includes national experts in control systems, microelectronics, energy, signal and image processing, robotics, and other areas.
Marketable expertise.
Our masters in electrical and computer engineering equips you with applied skills that can help you stand out in the job market and/or the workplace. In addition to acquiring practical know-how, you’ll build the confidence to assume professional leadership roles.
Academic flexibility.
You can personalize the masters in electrical and computer engineering by focusing your studies in one of eight depth areas. These academic concentrations allow you to tailor the degree to fit your academic interests and career objectives.
Convenient options for working adults.
To accommodate midcareer professionals and recent college graduates who are entering the workforce, Oakland offers the electrical and computer engineering masters degree in both full-time and part-time formats. The latter option enables you to earn the degree while you’re working full-time.
What Can You Do With a Masters in Electrical and Computer Engineering?
Employers in the private and government sectors actively recruit graduates of Oakland’s masters in electrical and computer engineering program. If you’re already employed, the degree gives you the experience and credentials to advance into senior roles. If you’re just entering the workforce, the electrical and computer engineering masters helps you compete for top jobs with the best employers.
Oakland’s reputation and Southeast Michigan location give you outstanding career opportunities in industries such as:
Automotive
Bioengineering
Manufacturing
Robotics and automation
Energy
Wireless communications
Health care
Computer hardware and software
Augmented reality
Electrical and Computer Engineering Masters Degree Curriculum
The masters degree in electrical and computer engineering requires 32 credits of graduate coursework. Although the program does not require a masters thesis or graduate engineering project, both of these options are available to build professional skills and specialized subject-matter knowledge.
The electrical and computer engineering masters degree includes eight depth areas, enabling you to focus your studies in an area of personal academic or professional interest. Depth areas are:
Communications
Computer engineering
Signal processing
Mechatronics and robotics
Controls
Electromagnetics
Energy
Electronics
Electrical and Computer Engineering Masters Program Resources
Academic Requirements
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
School of Engineering and Computer Science
Programs Related to the Masters in Electrical and Computer Engineering
Not sure if the masters degree in electrical and computer engineering is right for you? Check out these other graduate programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Master of Science in Embedded Systems
Master of Science in Mechatronic Systems Engineering
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

