URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/master-embedded-systems/

Master of Science
Embedded Systems
Enhance your engineering and computer science skills with Oakland University’s rigorous M.S. in Embedded Systems program.
The field of embedded systems is growing quickly throughout the world: From electrical engineering and consumer electronics to computer engineering and the automotive industry, computer science experts are in high demand in nearly every sector.
When you join the M.S. in Embedded Systems program at Oakland University, you’ll not only be part of one of best Master of Science programs for entering the tech world — you’ll also join a close-knit community of peers, faculty and staff dedicated to helping each other achieve great things and grow every day. You’ll take engaging courses in cutting-edge labs and classrooms that will give you valuable experience working with the same software and hardware used by professionals throughout the field.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
The field of embedded systems is growing quickly throughout the world: From electrical engineering and consumer electronics to computer engineering and the automotive industry, computer science experts are in high demand in nearly every sector.
When you join the M.S. in Embedded Systems program at Oakland University, you’ll not only be part of one of best Master of Science programs for entering the tech world — you’ll also join a close-knit community of peers, faculty and staff dedicated to helping each other achieve great things and grow every day. You’ll take engaging courses in cutting-edge labs and classrooms that will give you valuable experience working with the same software and hardware used by professionals throughout the field.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
M.S. in Embedded Systems: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland University’s M.S. in Embedded Systems is designed for students with a bachelor’s degree in computer science, computer engineering or electrical engineering looking to build advanced expertise in both software and hardware knowledge. As a student in our M.S. in Embedded Systems program, you’ll enjoy individualized learning pathways, world-renowned faculty and many ways to network and make lasting relationships.There are many features that make us one of the most respected Master of Science programs for embedded systems in the region.
A few of the things you can look forward to as a student in the M.S. in Embedded Systems program include:
Personalized curriculum:
Whether you’re interested in electrical engineering or computer science, there are so many career opportunities in the field of embedded systems. That’s why we help you to tailor your M.S. in Embedded Systems to align your education with your career goals. You can choose from either a professional track or a research track, depending on where you want to work and what you want to focus on.
Experienced faculty:
Thanks to small class sizes, you can work closely with leading scholars and practitioners across the computer science and computer engineering world. Our M.S. in Embedded Systems program includes personalized mentorships and academic advising to make sure that you’re successful both academically and professionally.
A thriving computer science and engineering community:
Another feature that makes us one of the top Master of Science programs for embedded systems is our ever-growing number of student-run organizations, outreach programs and international programs. Meet students from other Master of Science programs in the School of Engineering and Computer Science and grow your network of friends and colleagues while building an impressive resume of experience.
What Can You Do With an M.S. in Embedded Systems?
Thanks to the rapid growth in the computer science and engineering sector across the globe, Master of Science programs in topics like embedded systems offer some of the best career growth potential and salary rates for professionals. According to Payscale.com, the average median salary for embedded systems engineers with a Master of Science degree is $97,000.
Our M.S. in Embedded Systems program combines theory and practical application to prepare you to excel in a wide range of professional roles and settings — from the private sector to government agencies and nonprofits.
We also offer the Career and Life Design Center for students across different Master of Science programs to help build professional skills, create a great resume and design the life path you want.
Some of the fields and industries you could enter with an M.S. in Embedded Systems from OU include:
Automotive manufacturing
Computer engineering
Consumer electronics
Computer science
Electrical engineering
Hardware engineering
Software engineering
Top Courses in the M.S. in Embedded Systems Program
When you join the M.S. in Embedded Systems program at OU, you’ll immerse yourself in the world of electrical engineering and computer science through challenging and rewarding coursework. Applicants to the program can hold a degree in another field but may need to take additional coursework to ensure they are ready for rigorous program courses.
We offer many choices for courses you can take to meet the requirements of the program, meaning that you can take the classes and electives that best suit your interests and career aspirations. One of the main things that sets our embedded systems apart from other Master of Science programs in computer science and engineering is our focus on both the hardware and software side of computer science. With classes encompassing computer architecture, design and artificial intelligence, you’ll build a well-rounded expertise in the field.
Some of the courses you can take in the M.S. in Embedded Systems program include:
Computer Hardware Design
Embedded Security
GPU Accelerated Computing
High Performance Embedded Programming
Microcomputer-Based Control Systems
Real-Time Computer Systems
M.S. in Embedded Systems Program Resources
Program Requirements
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
School of Engineering and Computer Science
Programs Related to the M.S. in Embedded Systems
Not sure if the M.S. in Embedded Systems is right for you? Check out these other graduate degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Master of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering
Master of Science in Mechatronics Systems Engineering
Master of Science in Computer Science
Master of science in Software Engineering
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

