URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/master-science-engineering-management/

Master of Science
Engineering Management
Elevate your engineering career with sought-after, advanced skills in business and industry management.
Oakland University’s Master’s in Engineering Management (MEM) program is your gateway to a successful career in engineering management. Designed in collaboration between the Industrial and Systems Engineering Department and the School of Business Administration, our engineering management program empowers working engineers with the skills and knowledge to excel in the dynamic fields of industry and business while preserving their expertise in their specialized area.
No matter your engineering background, our master’s in engineering management offers exceptional flexibility. At Oakland University, we understand that every engineer is unique, and our MEM program celebrates this diversity by offering an array of course options tailored specifically to your career aspirations. Whether you’re looking to enhance your current skills or pursue new opportunities within your field, our engineering management degree provides the training and experience you need to reach your full potential.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University’s Master’s in Engineering Management (MEM) program is your gateway to a successful career in engineering management. Designed in collaboration between the Industrial and Systems Engineering Department and the School of Business Administration, our engineering management program empowers working engineers with the skills and knowledge to excel in the dynamic fields of industry and business while preserving their expertise in their specialized area.
No matter your engineering background, our master’s in engineering management offers exceptional flexibility. At Oakland University, we understand that every engineer is unique, and our MEM program celebrates this diversity by offering an array of course options tailored specifically to your career aspirations. Whether you’re looking to enhance your current skills or pursue new opportunities within your field, our engineering management degree provides the training and experience you need to reach your full potential.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Master’s in Engineering Management: The Oakland University Advantage
The master’s in engineering management program at Oakland University offers numerous advantages, setting you on a path to professional success in the engineering and business worlds. We offer engineering students a diverse range of course options, giving you the flexibility to design your own educational journey that aligns perfectly with your unique aspirations and career objectives.
Additional highlights of our engineering management degree include:
Flexible learning options:
Our master’s in engineering management program accommodates your schedule with evening and part-time classes, making it ideal for working professionals seeking to advance their education while maintaining their current engineering career. In addition, engineering students may enter the program at any time of the year, with start dates in September, January and May.
Expert faculty and industry collaboration:
As an OU engineering student, you’ll benefit from the guidance and mentorship of experienced faculty and the opportunity to collaborate with industry professionals. With our unique location in Southeast Michigan, in the hub of Automation Alley, our engineering management program offers a rich learning environment where you can gain practical insights and valuable connections.
Tailored mentorship and support:
At OU, we go the extra mile to ensure your success. Our engineering management program provides personalized mentorship and support, helping you navigate your educational journey with confidence and clarity. In addition, our
Career and Life Design Center
offers extensive career support, including lifetime services for alumni.
What Can You Do With an Engineering Management Degree?
Engineers shape the future, and at Oakland University, our MEM program equips you with the indispensable skills and knowledge to elevate your engineering career, embrace new challenges and chart a path toward leadership.
As a graduate of Oakland University’s master’s in engineering management program, you’ll be well prepared for pivotal management roles in engineering. Our comprehensive engineering degree equips you with sought-after skills to excel in a variety of areas, such as planning, directing and coordinating activities.
As you steer projects, allocate resources and lead cross-functional teams, your OU engineering degree will empower you to make informed decisions and drive innovation within your specialized field. Additionally, our engineering degree opens doors to lucrative opportunities. According to the
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics
, engineering managers can expect to earn a median annual salary of $159,920. Actual earnings may vary depending on level of experience, education, location and other factors.
Master’s in Engineering Management: What You’ll Learn
Oakland University’s MEM program features dynamic and flexible course offerings designed to propel your career in engineering management. Our comprehensive curriculum is structured into five key areas, each offering a spectrum of courses tailored to meet your individual goals:
Engineering Core:
These fundamental courses cover essential topics such as Engineering Project Management, Engineering Decision Analysis, Product Lifecycle Management and Statistical Quality Analysis.
Management:
Gain insight into the world of business and leadership with courses in Financial Management, Organizational Behavior and Legal Environment of Business.
Engineering Specialties:
Customize your engineering degree by selecting from a vast array of more than 150 offerings in Industrial and Systems Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Electrical and Computer Engineering, Systems Engineering, and Computer Science and Informatics.
Engineering/Management Electives:
Expand your horizons with a rich selection of more than 40 engineering and management courses.
Theory:
Develop a deeper understanding of the theoretical foundations of engineering management with courses like Statistical Methods in Engineering and Engineering Operations Research.
Our engineering management program also offers specialized concentrations for those interested in focusing their studies in specific areas of interest, including:
Product Lifecycle Management
Energy Management
Lean and Continuous Improvement
Ergonomics and Human Factors
Systems Engineering
Optimization and Analytics
Throughput Simulation
Engineering Management Resources
Academic Requirements
Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering
School of Engineering and Computer Science
School of Business Administration
Related Programs
Not sure if an engineering management degree is right for you? Check out our other master’s in engineering opportunities and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Engineering Management (Online)
Industrial and Systems Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Systems Engineering
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

