URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/bachelor-arts-english-language-arts-educators/

Bachelor of Arts
English Language Arts for Educators
Share your passion for reading and writing with your students when you earn a Bachelor of Arts in English Language Arts for Educators.
From Homer and Shakespeare to Toni Morrison and Amanda Gorman, literature and storytelling are fundamental parts of humanity and society. When you earn a Bachelor of Arts in English Language Arts for Educators at Oakland University, you will immerse yourself in the study of literary history, theory, writing and teaching to prepare for a rewarding career teaching students the wonders of literature.
We’ve designed an English language arts degree that covers a broad range of literature — from classical mythology to contemporary American literature and everything in between. This rigorous and engaging curriculum will help you pursue state teacher certification at the 5–9 and 7–12 grade bands.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
From Homer and Shakespeare to Toni Morrison and Amanda Gorman, literature and storytelling are fundamental parts of humanity and society. When you earn a Bachelor of Arts in English Language Arts for Educators at Oakland University, you will immerse yourself in the study of literary history, theory, writing and teaching to prepare for a rewarding career teaching students the wonders of literature.
We’ve designed an English language arts degree that covers a broad range of literature — from classical mythology to contemporary American literature and everything in between. This rigorous and engaging curriculum will help you pursue state teacher certification at the 5–9 and 7–12 grade bands.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
English Language Arts Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
Gain the expertise to excel in a teaching career with an English degree program focused on training the next great generation of educators in Michigan and beyond.
There are many benefits to earning a degree in English language arts from OU:
Experienced faculty mentors:
As you earn your English language arts degree, you’ll meet and work alongside highly accomplished
faculty members
who are recognized and respected for their research in poetry, film, novels, theater and theory. If you are wondering how to find a career with an English degree, our faculty can help you tailor your B.A. in English to your interests to ensure that you find the right career path.
Teaching internships:
With hands-on
internship opportunities
, we ensure that our English majors are prepared to help their own students by the time they graduate with their English language arts degree. You can intern at several public schools in Michigan assisting teachers and other volunteers. You can also participate in Beyond Basics — a literacy nonprofit in which you can provide reading tutoring and other assistance to students in grades pre-K though 12.
Alumni mentoring:
Prepare for a teaching career with an English degree with alumni who can offer lessons from their experience transitioning from English major to teacher. We pair students in the program with
alumni mentors
and they decide how they wish to communicate. Some meet for coffee. Others communicate virtually through Zoom or email.
What Can You Do With an English Language Arts Degree?
Many prospective English majors wonder whether they can find an impactful career with an English degree. The answer is: definitely. In today’s technological and politically divided world, it’s important to appreciate the roles that reading, writing and thinking critically play in making sense of society and interacting with others. As an educator, you’ll help your students navigate the ever-changing world through media literacy and creative problem-solving.
When you earn a degree in English language arts from OU, you can pursue teacher certification in Michigan to teach students at the middle or high school level. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, middle and high school teachers earn an average salary of around $62,000. In addition to this salary, you’ll enjoy knowing that you are teaching the next generation of leaders how to think critically and creatively.
If you are interested in pursuing a
graduate degree in English
to increase your career and salary potential or transition into postsecondary teaching, our Bachelor of Arts in English Language Arts for Educators will help you create a stable foundation to build upon for decades to come.
Some of the careers you could pursue with an English language arts degree from OU include:
Middle school teacher
High school teacher
Reading tutor
Curriculum coordinator
Top Courses for English Majors
E
xplore the rich history of global literature while centering the voices that have traditionally been overlooked in education. Your courses in American and British literature will be accompanied by courses on the Indigenous literature of North America, African American literature and postcolonial literature.
You’ll also build a toolkit of theories and unique perspectives from which to approach the study of literature — including gender and sexuality, disability studies and environmental concerns.
Some of the courses you can enjoy as you earn your English language arts degree include:
Approaches to Teaching Literature and Composition
Early American Literature
Modern/Contemporary Literature
Classical Mythology
Careers in Teaching and Learning
Public Speaking
English Language Arts for Educators Program Resources
Major Requirements
Department of English
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Bachelor of Arts in English Language Arts for Educators
Not sure if the English language arts degree for educators is right for you? Check out these other undergraduate degree programs at Oakland and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Bachelor of Arts in English
Bachelor of Arts in Women and Gender Studies
Bachelor of Arts to Master of Arts in English
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

