URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/graduate-certificate-entrepreneurship/

Graduate Certificate
Entrepreneurship
Oakland’s entrepreneurship certificate equips you with the practical knowledge to seize opportunities and take intelligent risks.
Our Post-Masters Certificate in Entrepreneurship prepares you to launch a new company or promote innovation within an existing company, whether or not you have a business background. Oakland’s entrepreneurship certificate program provides you with the tools to assess and refine your idea, giving it (and yourself) the best chance for success. In addition to covering practical skills such as finance, research, management, and marketing, our graduate entrepreneurship certificate connects you with a community of independent thinkers who share your passion and creativity. You’ll get personalized input and mentorship from seasoned businesspeople, while earning a respected certificate in entrepreneurship from a top-ranked business school. Acquire the training and confidence you need to bring your entrepreneurial dream to life.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Our Post-Masters Certificate in Entrepreneurship prepares you to launch a new company or promote innovation within an existing company, whether or not you have a business background. Oakland’s entrepreneurship certificate program provides you with the tools to assess and refine your idea, giving it (and yourself) the best chance for success. In addition to covering practical skills such as finance, research, management, and marketing, our graduate entrepreneurship certificate connects you with a community of independent thinkers who share your passion and creativity. You’ll get personalized input and mentorship from seasoned businesspeople, while earning a respected certificate in entrepreneurship from a top-ranked business school. Acquire the training and confidence you need to bring your entrepreneurial dream to life.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Graduate Entrepreneurship Certificate: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland’s School of Business Administration has earned national acclaim from US World and News Report, CEO magazine, and other organizations. Our post-masters certificate in entrepreneurship meets the same high academic and professional standards as all of our business programs.
This certificate provides you with:
Practical expertise.
You’ll learn more than textbook theory in our entrepreneurship certificate program, cultivating applied skills that directly impact your results. Our courses in entrepreneurship deliver knowledge that helps you solve problems, meet challenges, and compete successfully.
Outstanding instructors.
Our entrepreneurship certificate program is led by the same elite faculty who teach in Oakland’s nationally ranked MBA program and other renowned graduate business programs. You’ll learn from expert analysts, researchers, and innovators who teach from direct experience in the business world.
Robust partnerships.
In addition to top-notch professors, Oakland’s graduate certificate in entrepreneurship boasts strong business relationships throughout Southeast Michigan. We can help you connect with thought leaders in your industry or in particular aspects of business development, from finance to marketing, manufacturing, technology, supply chain, and distribution.
Personalized instruction.
Oakland’s certificate in entrepreneurship offers broad latitude in course selection, enabling you to focus your studies in the areas that are most relevant to your particular business idea and professional strengths.
Flexibility and convenience.
The graduate entrepreneurship certificate program is designed for adult students who need to balance coursework with professional responsibilities. Depending on your time-management needs, you can complete the program in as little as one year or stretch it out over three years.
What Can You Do With a Post-Masters Certificate in Entrepreneurship?
The entrepreneurship certificate program is flexible enough to accommodate people from all academic and professional specialties. You do not not any prior business training.
Oakland’s graduate entrepreneurship program prepares you for a variety of entrepreneurial and intrapreneurial roles, including (but not limited to):
Launching a new business
Developing a new product or service
Expanding into new markets
Building new departments, divisions, or project teams
Establishing nonprofit organizations
Leading organizational change initiatives
Graduate Entrepreneurship Certificate Curriculum
The post-masters certificate in entrepreneurship consists of one required course in entrepreneurship, plus four electives, for a total of 15 credits. Elective courses in the entrepreneurship certificate program cover a broad range of subjects, including:
Federal taxation
Real estate
Financial management
Small business
Business ethics
Strategic marketing
Product and brand management
Decision making
Process management
Project management
You also have the option of arranging independent study in entrepreneurship, with faculty approval.
Graduate Entrepreneurship Certificate Resources
Graduate Certificate Requirements
Graduate Business Programs
School of Business Administration
Programs Related to the Post-Masters Entrepreneurship Certificate
Not sure if the graduate certificate in entrepreneurship is right for you ? Check out these other graduate business programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Online Executive MBA
Executive MBA
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

