URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/environmental-science/

Bachelor of Science
Environmental Science
Find the right career niche with Oakland University’s environmental science degree.
Environmental science jobs tend to involve plenty of time in the field. Oakland University’s environmental science degree takes the same approach. You’ll routinely get out of the classroom and into the community, where you can put environmental science principles into practice and get a hands-on introduction to environmental science jobs of all kinds. With separate tracks in environmental health and environmental sustainability, our environmental science degree is flexible enough to prepare you for environmental science careers in research, management, advocacy, conservation,
public health
, and many other specialties. You’ll acquire skills and experience that stand out in the environmental science job market—and that equip you to solve the environmental challenges of today and tomorrow.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Environmental science jobs tend to involve plenty of time in the field. Oakland University’s environmental science degree takes the same approach. You’ll routinely get out of the classroom and into the community, where you can put environmental science principles into practice and get a hands-on introduction to environmental science jobs of all kinds. With separate tracks in environmental health and environmental sustainability, our environmental science degree is flexible enough to prepare you for environmental science careers in research, management, advocacy, conservation,
public health
, and many other specialties. You’ll acquire skills and experience that stand out in the environmental science job market—and that equip you to solve the environmental challenges of today and tomorrow.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Environmental Science Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
Much like a healthy ecosystem, our environmental science program consists of a web of interdependent relationships. We collaborate actively with other academic departments on campus, and with government agencies, nonprofits, businesses, health organizations, and other environmental science organizations in the community.
Environmental science majors at Oakland University enjoy exceptional opportunities to:
Gain hands-on experience.
The environmental science degree includes a required internship or capstone project, enabling you to gain real-world experience in a professional workplace, community setting, or other venue. In addition, our environmental science majors frequently build their skills and resumes through volunteer service, summer jobs, and other types of involvement.
Conduct research as an undergraduate.
Environmental science majors can do field studies right on campus at Oakland University’s two biological preserves, which total 100+ acres. You’ll also have opportunities to serve as a research assistant for faculty or for environmental scientists who work with partner agencies in the community.
Make an impact.
Oakland University is located in an environmentally rich area that faces many of the same challenges confronting the nation and the world. You can get directly involved in urgent environmental science issues related to climate change, water quality, amphibian extinction, industrial impacts, and other matters. Our environmental science majors and faculty partner with local nonprofits and governmental agencies to conduct research, raise awareness, and mitigate environmental threats.
Develop well-rounded skills.
Environmental science jobs usually require more than scientific ability. Our environmental science degree pairs core proficiencies with emphasis on writing, communication, teamwork, problem-solving, and other complementary skills that have tremendous value in the environmental science job market.
Connect with faculty.
Most of our environmental science courses are taught by experienced faculty (not TAs or adjuncts) who place high priority on undergraduate education. Our small class sizes ensure that you get plenty of one-on-one attention from your professors, building relationships that enhance your academic and professional growth.
What can you do with an environmental science degree?
Environmental Science Jobs and Careers
Because environmental science jobs vary so widely, our environmental science degree offers two separate academic tracks. Although the tracks overlap to a great extent, they have distinct emphases that support different environmental science career pathways.
The environmental health track provides a foundation for environmental science careers that involve:
Environmental regulation
Food safety
Soil, water, and air quality
Hazardous materials
Occupational health and safety
Waste management
Industrial regulation and cleanup
Toxic site cleanup
Risk management
The environmental sustainability and resource management track lends itself to environmental science careers involving:
Resource conservation
Environmental protection
Renewable energy
Land-use policy
Soil, water, and air quality
Sustainable agriculture
Environmental policy and regulation
Wildlife protection
Environmental Science Degree: What You’ll Study
Courses in the environmental science degree vary, depending on which specialization you choose. All environmental science majors will take courses in biology, chemistry, ecology, and environmental law. Additional courses for the environmental health track cover subjects such as:
Human physiology
Biochemistry
Organic chemistry
Public and environmental health
Hazardous materials
Industrial and environmental toxicology
Environmental management
To complete the environmental sustainability track of the environmental science degree, required courses include:
Geology
Energy
Soil science
Water resources
Biogeochemical cycling
Field biology or botany
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

