URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/environmental-health-and-safety/

Bachelor of Science Degree
Environmental Health and Safety
With an EHS degree, you’ll gain the expertise to protect the environment, prevent injuries, and save lives.
An environmental health and safety (EHS) degree equips you to identify risks and mitigate hazards before they cause damage. Oakland University established one of the nation’s first EHS programs, and we’ve been leaders in the field ever since. Nationally ranked and widely respected, our EHS program is led by pioneering faculty who are pushing the boundaries of EHS. You’ll learn in state-of-the-art labs as an EHS major, developing marketable EHS expertise that’s in extremely high demand. You’ll also gain real-world environmental health and safety experience, completing internships and field placements in Southeast Michigan’s world-class industrial sector. Our EHS majors routinely receive job offers before graduation. There’s no better place to start your EHS career.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
An environmental health and safety (EHS) degree equips you to identify risks and mitigate hazards before they cause damage. Oakland University established one of the nation’s first EHS programs, and we’ve been leaders in the field ever since. Nationally ranked and widely respected, our EHS program is led by pioneering faculty who are pushing the boundaries of EHS. You’ll learn in state-of-the-art labs as an EHS major, developing marketable EHS expertise that’s in extremely high demand. You’ll also gain real-world environmental health and safety experience, completing internships and field placements in Southeast Michigan’s world-class industrial sector. Our EHS majors routinely receive job offers before graduation. There’s no better place to start your EHS career.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
EHS Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
Global leaders in energy, automotive, refining, health care, and other industries have operations in Southeast Michigan, making this an ideal place to prepare for an EHS career. Oakland University has active partnerships in the environmental, industrial and regulatory sectors, enabling you to interact with a community of EHS innovators who are working on next-generation technologies for environmental monitoring, industrial processing, community health research, worker protection, and other aspects of environmental health and safety.
Other unique benefits of our EHS program include:
High-impact education.
You’ll acquire practical, relevant expertise that makes a real difference. Our EHS graduates solve problems and get results, helping to produce measurable improvements in human well-being and environmental health.
Marketable skills.
Demand for EHS professionals is rising quickly, and employers view Oakland University as a go-to source for new hires. Our EHS graduates stand out in the job market for their deep subject-matter knowledge and hands-on experience, as well as their maturity, confidence, and professional polish. Students in our EHS program routinely have job offers waiting for them at graduation.
Superior facilities and labs.
We have sophisticated, high-tech EHS labs. You’ll simulate real-life challenges and use the same equipment and protocols you’ll encounter in your EHS career, learning lessons and skills that can’t be taught from a textbook.
Professional connections.
Our EHS program draws heavily on professional experts from major corporations and government agencies. You’ll interact with them via internships, project-based assignments, and other opportunities, acquiring contacts and guidance that can jump-start your career in environmental health and science.
Expert faculty.
Oakland University’s EHS faculty include nationally recognized experts with exceptional achievements in research and applied practice. Our small class sizes ensure that you get lots of direct attention from instructors, with plenty of academic support and career guidance.
Completion pathways for certificate holders.
The EHS program includes distinct pathways to a bachelor’s degree for working adults who hold CSP or MIOSHA Training Institute certification.
What can you do with an environmental health and safety degree?
EHS Careers
The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics projects above-average job growth for environmental health and safety specialists. Our alumni have a job placement record of close to 100 percent, and our program enables you to advance quickly in your EHS career, with excellent potential to rise into leadership positions.
Oakland University’s environmental health and safety degree prepares you for the full range of  EHS careers. You’ll be qualified to work in fields such as:
Health and safety engineering
Occupational health and safety
Risk management
Environmental monitoring
EHS management
Industrial hygiene
Safety administration
Consulting
Regulatory compliance
Project management
EHS Degree: What You’ll Study
The EHS degree includes required introductory courses in biology, chemistry, statistics, physics, business, psychology, and business writing. Core coursework for the EHS major covers topics such as:
Environmental standards
EHS training methods
Occupational safety and health standards
Fire prevention
Occupational hygiene
Incident investigation
Construction safety
Robotics and automated systems
Ergonomics
Toxicology
The program concludes with an internship, field placement, or capstone project. Separate course sequences apply for students who are completing the EHS degree after attaining MIOSHA or CSPS certification.
Current Environmental Health and Safety Internships
Safety Specialist Internship at dsm-firmenich
Intern - Environmental Health & Safety at Howmet Aerospace Inc.
Environmental Health & Safety Intern at Tronair
Intern - Admin Safety Specialist, Public Works at City of Minneapolis
Summer 2025 Safety, Health, Environmental (SHE) Intern at dsm-firmenich
Intern - EHS at Sensient Technologies
Risk Control Intern (Summer 2025) at Westfield
2025 Internship Program – Safety, Health, Environment & Security Intern in Germantown, Wisconsin at dsm-firmenich
Environmental, Health & Safety Summer Internship 2025: Pharmaceutical Industry at Fresenius Kabi
EHS  Intern at CRH
EHS Intern - The Toro Company at The Toro Company
Environmental Health and Safety Intern at Johns Manville
Environmental Health & Safety Intern - Davenport, IA at Novelis
Environmental Health & Safety Intern - Uhrichsville, OH at Novelis
Environmental Health and Safety Intern - Guthrie, KY at Novelis
EHS Internship at OPmobility
Environmental Health and Safety Co-Op - Spring 2025 at Crown Equipment Corporation
Safety Intern at Mativ
Environmental Health & Safety Intern (Summer 2025) at The Andersons Inc.
Internship - Safety, Health, and Environmental at Vulcan Materials Company
Construction Safety Intern at Niles Industrial Coatings
Intern - Safety - Tell City, IN at CRH
2025 Student Internship (U.S.) - Industrial Hygienist Intern at Bechtel
2025 Student Internship (U.S.) - Safety Specialist Intern at Bechtel
HazMat Compliance Intern at DigiKey
Workplace Health and Safety Specialist Intern East 2025 at Amazon
Environmental Health and  Safety Intern at The Shyft Group
Environmental, Health, and Safety Intern at Woodstream
(#00013205) Intern/Co-op Safety & Industrial Hygiene (Spring 2025) at Marathon Petroleum Company LP
Safety Co-Op Spring 2025 at McWane Ductile Ohio
Safety Professional Intern/Co-Op at International Paper
+ Show More
- Show Less
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

