URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/master-exercise-science/

Master of Science
Exercise Science
Get a range of career advantages with our master’s degree in exercise science.
Oakland University’s well-established exercise science masters program has an outstanding track record of alumni success. Whether you’re a midcareer practitioner or just starting your exercise science career, you’ll get superior hands-on training that gives you an edge in the job market and the workplace. A recognized leader in cardiac rehabilitation and corporate wellness, our exercise science graduate program has a growing reputation for excellence in biomechanics, motor control, and other specialties. You’ll work in Oakland’s first-rate exercise science labs, complete professional internships with some of Michigan’s top clinicians, and conduct independent research in exercise science. If you seek to continue your training, our masters in exercise science offers a solid bridge to doctoral programs or other clinical graduate degrees.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University’s well-established exercise science masters program has an outstanding track record of alumni success. Whether you’re a midcareer practitioner or just starting your exercise science career, you’ll get superior hands-on training that gives you an edge in the job market and the workplace. A recognized leader in cardiac rehabilitation and corporate wellness, our exercise science graduate program has a growing reputation for excellence in biomechanics, motor control, and other specialties. You’ll work in Oakland’s first-rate exercise science labs, complete professional internships with some of Michigan’s top clinicians, and conduct independent research in exercise science. If you seek to continue your training, our masters in exercise science offers a solid bridge to doctoral programs or other clinical graduate degrees.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Exercise Science Masters Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
Our
masters degree in exercise science
stands out for its practical, career-oriented approach. You’ll acquire real-world experience and professional polish along with comprehensive subject-matter expertise, developing the self-confidence and strong communication skills that distinguish first-rate clinicians.
Choose our exercise science masters program if you’re looking for:
Top-notch internships.
With deep community roots and a far-flung alumni network, our
exercise science masters program
can connect you with Michigan’s leading practitioners. You’ll learn directly from the best, building relationships that often lead directly to postgraduate employment.
Superior faculty.
Oakland’s
masters in exercise science
is led by clinical experts and high-profile researchers. Our faculty offer personal mentorship and career guidance along with academic instruction.
Professional facilities.
We have four state-of-the-art
exercise science
labs on campus that allow you to cultivate excellent clinical technique, master industry-standard technology, and participate in pioneering research.
Rigorous academics.
Graduates of our
exercise science masters program
routinely go on to earn doctoral degrees in exercise science. The program also gives you a solid foundation for advanced degrees in physical therapy, movement science, occupational therapy, and other disciplines.
Broad career options.
Our location in metro Detroit gives you access to robust opportunities in all areas of
exercise science
. While Oakland has a long tradition of training cardiac rehabilitation specialists and workplace wellness experts, we can help you gain expertise in whatever niche you’d like to pursue.
What Can You Do With a Masters in Exercise Science?
An
exercise science masters degree
equips you for leadership positions in clinical practice, with the potential to pursue research or academic roles. Potential career pathways include:
Cardiac rehabilitation
Corporate wellness
Fitness training
Health education
Exercise physiology
Physical therapy
Recreational therapy
Coaching
Oakland’s
masters in exercise science program
also gives you excellent preparation for post-graduate clinical programs in disciplines such as physical therapy and occupational therapy.
Masters in Exercise Science Curriculum
The
exercise science masters program
requires 32 credit hours beyond the bachelor's degree. Coursework is divided into three general areas: exercise physiology, biomechanics, and motor control. The following courses are required:
Introduction to research
Advanced exercise physiology
Advanced biomechanics
Diagnostic testing and exercise prescription
Nutrition, weight management, and exercise
You’ll also take 6 credits of electives, complete a hands-on internship, and conduct faculty-mentored research.
Masters in Exercise Science Program Resources
Academic requirements
Department of Human Movement Science
School of Health Sciences
Programs Related to the Masters in Exercise Science
Not sure if the
exercise science masters degree
is right for you ? Check out these other graduate programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Ph.D. in Human Movement Science
Ph.D. in Physical Therapy
Graduate Certificate in Oncology Rehabilitation
Graduate Certificate in Orthopedic Manual Physical Therapy
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

