URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/pre-physical-therapy/

Bachelor of Science
Exercise Science: Concentration in Pre-Physical Therapy
Get specialized preparation for the most competitive graduate doctor of physical therapy degrees.
Our B.S. in Exercise Science with Pre-Physical Therapy concentration provides you with specialized preparation for a doctoral degree in physical therapy. This unique pre-physical therapy degree combines a solid background in exercise science with coursework specifically designed to prepare you for our highly regarded Doctor of Physical Therapy degree. You’ll get face-to-face instruction from expert faculty and plenty of hands-on experience in state-of-the-art exercise science labs. This pre-physical therapy degree provides you with early exposure to the profession, including relevant preparatory coursework, as well as our state of the art facility and outstanding faculty from the Oakland University School of Health Sciences.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Our B.S. in Exercise Science with Pre-Physical Therapy concentration provides you with specialized preparation for a doctoral degree in physical therapy. This unique pre-physical therapy degree combines a solid background in exercise science with coursework specifically designed to prepare you for our highly regarded Doctor of Physical Therapy degree. You’ll get face-to-face instruction from expert faculty and plenty of hands-on experience in state-of-the-art exercise science labs. This pre-physical therapy degree provides you with early exposure to the profession, including relevant preparatory coursework, as well as our state of the art facility and outstanding faculty from the Oakland University School of Health Sciences.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Pre-Physical Therapy Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
Demand for physical therapists is sharply increasing, so our pre-physical therapy degree gives you an excellent foundation for success in the workforce. You’ll graduate with a competitive edge that helps you succeed in your physical therapy career.
Choose Oakland’s pre-physical therapy degree if you seek:
Practical, career-focused training.
You’ll get a head start on a doctor of physical therapy degree, with coursework and hands-on practice in physiology, anatomy, nutrition, biomechanics, and other advanced subjects.
Exceptional faculty.
Oakland’s pre-physical therapy degree is led by pioneering researchers and renowned experts who are at the top of the field. Small classes ensure that you get extensive faculty face time, developing strong one-on-one relationships with your professors.
Well-rounded education.
Because it’s housed in our robust School of Health Sciences, Oakland’s pre-physical therapy degree gives you an interdisciplinary perspective. You’ll interact with medical faculty, sports trainers, exercise scientists, and other experts, getting a holistic pre-physical therapy education that broadens your career options.
State-of-the-art facilities.
Oakland University’s exercise science labs and research facilities feature the most current technology. You’ll get hands-on training in equipment that’s used in exercise science and physical therapy.
Real-world experience.
Oakland University maintains partnerships throughout Southeast Michigan’s physical therapy community. You’ll have opportunities to intern for hospitals, rehab centers, private clinics, sports teams, and other organizations, acquiring direct experience that puts you ahead of the competition.
What Can You Do With a Pre-Physical Therapy Degree?
The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics projects that physical therapist jobs will grow about 22% by 2028, much faster than the growth rate for the workforce as a whole. Various trends are driving the growth in physical therapy career opportunities, including the popularity of recreational sports, the aging of the U.S. population, and cost-control initiatives in the U.S. health care system. The median annual physical therapist salary was $89,440 in 2019.
You can find physical therapy jobs in a variety of settings, including:
Private physical therapy clinics
Hospitals
Outpatient clinics
Nursing homes
Long-term care facilities
Exercise and fitness centers
Surgical rehabilitation facilities
Schools
Top Courses for the Pre-Physical Therapy Degree
The Bachelor of Science in Exercise Science with concentration in Physical Therapy involves foundational coursework in anatomy, physiology, physics, and psychology. You’ll also take core exercise science courses in nutrition, first aid, biomechanics, exercise physiology, and other subjects.
The pre-physical therapy concentration consists of required courses in:
Medical terminology
Human pathology
General chemistry / chemistry lab
General physics / physics lab
Developmental psychology
Physical therapy as a profession
The pre-physical therapy degree includes a required practicum or directed research project in exercise science.
Pre-Physical Therapy Degree Program Resources
Major requirements
Human Movement Science Department
School of Health Sciences
Programs Related to the Pre-Physical Therapy Degree
Not sure if the pre-physical therapy degree is right for you? Check out these other undergraduate degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Bachelor of Science in Wellness and Health Promotion
Bachelor of Science in Health Sciences
Bachelor of Science in Health Sciences / concentration in Nutrition
Bachelor of Science in Health Sciences / concentration in Holistic Health
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

