URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/exercise-science/

Bachelor of Science
Exercise Science
Our new exercise science degree draws on Oakland University’s traditional strengths.
Our bachelor’s degree in exercise science builds on Oakland University’s outstanding master’s-level exercise science degree. This major was introduced to meet the rapid growth in exercise science careers, offering an exercise science degree that equips you for graduate school or immediate employment. You’ll get an accelerated education as an exercise science major at Oakland University, exploring the interrelationships among physical fitness, disease prevention, stress management, nutrition, and overall health. A concentration in pre-physical therapy is available as well as a specialization in orthotist and prosthetist assistant studies. Our exercise science program enables you to gain hands-on clinical experience and participate in research, building a solid foundation for an exercise science career in physical therapy, orthotics and prosthetics, athletic training, health education, or a related profession.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Our bachelor’s degree in exercise science builds on Oakland University’s outstanding master’s-level exercise science degree. This major was introduced to meet the rapid growth in exercise science careers, offering an exercise science degree that equips you for graduate school or immediate employment. You’ll get an accelerated education as an exercise science major at Oakland University, exploring the interrelationships among physical fitness, disease prevention, stress management, nutrition, and overall health. A concentration in pre-physical therapy is available as well as a specialization in orthotist and prosthetist assistant studies. Our exercise science program enables you to gain hands-on clinical experience and participate in research, building a solid foundation for an exercise science career in physical therapy, orthotics and prosthetics, athletic training, health education, or a related profession.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Exercise Science Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
You’ll have the chance to interact with sports trainers, physical therapists, orthotists and prosthetists, and other specialists, developing well-rounded skills and professional polish that get your exercise science career off to a fast start.
In addition, our exercise science degree stands out for its:
Clinical experience.
You’ll get out of the classroom routinely in our exercise science program, working with practitioners and patients in real-world clinical settings. The program enables you to work with diverse populations on and off campus, ranging from elite athletes to senior citizens. You’ll gain direct hands-on experience that’s rare in an undergraduate exercise science program.
Community connections.
Oakland University’s partnerships in Southeast Michigan yield a host of benefits for exercise science majors. You’ll have easy access to hospitals, schools, rehab facilities, medical device manufacturers, and other organizations for internships, research projects, and more.
Spirit of innovation.
Our tradition of leadership in exercise science stretches back several decades. We’ve had a hand in pioneering numerous breakthroughs in exercise science.
Attentive faculty.
Our exercise science degree is led by renowned experts who are at the top of their field. Most courses are taught by seasoned instructors (not grad students or adjuncts) in small classes, enabling you to form real relationships with faculty. They can offer professional mentorship and academic guidance that can have a big impact on your exercise science career.
Career preparation.
We have a reputation as a strong source of exercise science professionals, thanks to the track record established by graduates of our master’s-level exercise science degree. You’ll get serious consideration from employers and graduate school admissions committees, simply by having an exercise science degree from Oakland University.
What can you do with an exercise science degree?
Exercise Science Careers
Exercise science has emerged as an important branch of the health care industry, as research has proven the benefits of overall fitness in disease prevention. There’s also high demand for exercise science professionals to work with patients recovering from surgery, cancer, heart disease, and other serious illnesses. And if you’re interested in working with high-performance athletes, an exercise science degree can be a first step toward a career in athletic training.
The exercise science major may be right for you if you seek to work in professions such as:
Athletic training
Exercise physiology
Physical therapy
Occupational therapy
Diet and nutrition
Recreation programming
Physical education
Coaching
Sports nutrition
Cardiac rehabilitation
Kinesiology
Orthotics and prosthetics
Exercise Science Degree: What You’ll Study
The exercise science degree draws on multiple disciplines, including biology, chemistry, physics, psychology, materials science, engineering, and health sciences. You’ll take introductory courses in chemistry, biology, anatomy, and physiology, with additional requirements in areas such as:
Personal and occupational health
Exercise physiology
Nutrition and exercise
Research methods
Adulthood and aging
Safety and first aid
Cardiovascular fitness
Strength training
Human motion analysis
Athletic training
Wellness
Injury prevention and recovery
The exercise science major includes a required practicum in a professional setting such as a health care facility or fitness center.
Current Exercise Science, B.S. Internships
Exercise Science Summer Camp Internship - (PAID) at Camp Towanda
Wellness Specialist Intern at Greater Midland
+ Show More
- Show Less
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

