URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/graduate-certificate-finance/

Graduate Certificate
Finanace
Broaden your finance management and financial accounting expertise and elevate your career to new heights.
Get ready to boost your credentials and open new doors of opportunity for career advancement. Oakland University’s finance graduate certificate is the ideal building block for gaining specialized knowledge in topics like finance management and financial accounting. Our comprehensive graduate certificate is tailored for working professionals in any field and provides the foundation you need to stand out in the workplace. In addition to learning basic finance strategies, you’ll also advance into complex fiscal topics, equipping you to confidently apply your skills in real-world scenarios.
In just five courses, you can earn your finance graduate certificate under the mentorship of respected business faculty who are leaders in the field. Tap into their knowledge and expertise to develop and enhance your own — and accelerate your career success.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Get ready to boost your credentials and open new doors of opportunity for career advancement. Oakland University’s finance graduate certificate is the ideal building block for gaining specialized knowledge in topics like finance management and financial accounting. Our comprehensive graduate certificate is tailored for working professionals in any field and provides the foundation you need to stand out in the workplace. In addition to learning basic finance strategies, you’ll also advance into complex fiscal topics, equipping you to confidently apply your skills in real-world scenarios.
In just five courses, you can earn your finance graduate certificate under the mentorship of respected business faculty who are leaders in the field. Tap into their knowledge and expertise to develop and enhance your own — and accelerate your career success.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Finance Graduate Certificate: The Oakland University Advantage
As a graduate student at Oakland University, you’ll refine your skills and expand your proficiency in finance with our nationally accredited business and accounting programs.
OU’s finance certificate provides:
Confident decision-making abilities:
Through our finance graduate certificate, you’ll learn how to leverage key financial information to make sound business decisions. Your deeper understanding of critical concepts and theories will prepare you to be a confident leader in any financial capacity.
Renowned faculty mentors:
As a graduate student in our finance certificate program, you’ll learn from knowledgeable
professors
who truly understand various intricacies of the complex financial industry. They have real-world experience and regularly publish their work in leading business and academic journals.
A respected reputation:
OU’s
School of Business Administration
boasts a nationally recognized reputation, earning accolades from U.S. News & World Report and The Princeton Review for excellence in graduate student education. Plus, our dual accreditation by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) in both business and accounting places us in the top 1% of business schools globally.
Credits toward an MBA:
With OU’s finance graduate certificate, you’ll earn credits that can be applied toward an
Oakland University MBA degree
. Tailor your MBA to match your career goals by selecting the finance
concentration
or one of our other nine specializations.
A manageable course load:
Our comprehensive 15-credit finance management program spans five comprehensive courses, including topics in finance management and financial accounting, and allows you to maintain a sensible balance between classes and your professional and personal commitments.
What Can You Do With a Finance Graduate Certificate
OU’s finance graduate certificate is ideal for working professionals in any field who are interested in gaining foundational knowledge of the key business disciplines to either advance in their careers or manage their businesses.
Applicants should hold a bachelor’s degree and may have some prior knowledge of accounting and quantitative methods.
As a graduate student with a finance certificate, you can explore diverse career opportunities like:
Accounting technician
Accounting supervisor
Budget analyst
Finance coordinator
Financial risk manager
Financial specialist
You can use your finance graduate certificate to boost your earning potential within a wide range of industries, including nonprofits, health care organizations, information technology, government entities and more.
Top Courses for the Finance Graduate Certificate
Our finance certificate consists of 15 credits of coursework, including required courses such as:
Advanced Financial Management
Financial Management
Financial Modeling
Financial Reporting and Analysis
Investment Analysis
You’ll build on this base by choosing electives to tailor the finance graduate certificate to your specific career goals:
Independent Study in Finance
International Financial Management
Real Estate Investment Analysis
Special Topics in Finance
If you lack background knowledge in accounting or finance through your undergraduate degree, you’ll need to complete 6 credits of foundation courses, including:
Financial Accounting
Quantitative Methods for Managers
Finance Graduate Certificate Resources
Certificate Requirements
Graduate Business Programs
School of Business Administration
Programs Related to the Finance Graduate Certificate
Not sure if the finance graduate certificate is right for you? Check out these other business graduate certificate programs at Oakland and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Business Analytics Graduate Certificate
Business Essentials Graduate Certificate
FinTech Graduate Certificate
Marketing Graduate Certificate
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

