URL: https://catalog.oakland.edu/preview_program.php?catoid=66&poid=14011

Dec 18, 2024
2024-2025 Graduate Catalog
Select a Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog
2024-2025 Graduate Catalog
2023-2024 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog
2023-2024 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2023 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2021 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2019 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2017 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-2014 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-2014 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2011-2012 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2011-2012 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2010-2011 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-21 Syllabus [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-19 Syllabus [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-18 Syllabus [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-20 Syllabus [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Colleges and Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Online Catalog User Guide
Archived catalogs
Degree Programs and Graduate Certificates
Online Programs
Combined Bachelor/Graduate Degree Programs
Graduate Admission Requirements
Admission terms and application deadlines
Graduate Course Descriptions
Oakland University
University Information
Graduate School at Oakland University
Academic Departments
College of Arts and Sciences
School of Music, Theatre and Dance
School of Business Administration
School of Education and Human Services
School of Engineering and Computer Science
School of Health Sciences
School of Nursing
University Libraries
Oakland University William Beaumont School of Medicine
Graduate/University Policies
Graduate Academic Advising
Student Responsibility
Student Code Of Conduct
Office of Research Administration
Office of the Registrar
Student Financial Services
International Students and Scholars
Professional Licensure and Certification Program Disclosures
Student Services and Centers
Calendars and Deadlines
Graduate Assistantships, Scholarships and Fellowships
Graduation and Commencement
Doctoral Dissertations and Abstracts Archive
Campus Map
My Portfolio
HELP
2024-2025 Graduate Catalog
Forensic Nursing, Graduate Certificate
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
School of Nursing
3008 Human Health Building
(map)
(248) 370-8733 • Fax (248) 364-8740
www.oakland.edu/nursing
►
Apply Online
►
Class Schedule Search
Program Director:
Brenda Dzierzawski
2016 Human Health Building
248-364-8769
bdzierzawski@oakland.edu
Program description
The Graduate Certificate in Forensic Nursing is an 18-credit program that prepares graduates for professional practice in the role of the forensic nurse through the application of knowledge and principles foundational to nursing science and forensic science. Curriculum emphasizes interprofessional education related to the diverse roles and responsibilities of the forensic nurse as an independent practitioner and collaborator within the multidisciplinary forensic team while providing specialized care and services to individuals, families, communities, populations, and systems that have experienced violence, trauma, or maltreatment.
The Graduate Certificate in Forensic Nursing prepares graduates to practice globally as a forensic nurse examiner with the ability to sub-specialize in a specific area of forensic nursing if desired. Graduates may practice in a variety of forensic nursing areas such as sexual violence, intimate partner violence, child/elder maltreatment, death investigation, and emergency preparedness and disaster management.
Admission terms and application deadlines
Before an applicant’s file can be reviewed for full program admission, all application documents must be received in
NursingCAS
(a centralized application system) by the deadline listed below. Incomplete applications will not be sent to departments for admission review.
All applicants to this program are admitted for the Fall Semester only.
The application deadlines are:
Fall Semester - February 15 (early): April 15 (regular): July 15 (late).  All applications completed by July 15 will be considered for the following Fall Semester.
International students
: May 1 for the following Fall Semester  (see additional requirements below)
Application requirements
Applicants do not submit an online Oakland University Graduate Application
.  A completed application and required materials must be submitted through the
Nursing Centralized Application Service
(NursingCAS).
To be considered for graduate admission, applicants must submit all Graduate Application Requirements
and
additional department requirements by the published application deadlines.
Additional department application requirements
Applicants for admission to the Graduate Certificate in Forensic Nursing program must have completed a Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree with an overall undergraduate cumulative grade point average of 3.0 or above from an institution accredited by the National League for Nursing or the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education.
Proof of a current unrestricted Registered Nurse license in the United States or its territories.
A minimum of one year of clinical experience as an R.N. (at program start) is required during which time the applicant must have functioned as an independent decision-maker and demonstrated advanced psychomotor skills.
Two (2) Recommendations must be completed by healthcare professionals in forensic nursing, leadership, administration/management, or education and are able to attest to the applicant’s nursing skills and/or abilities. One reference must be from a colleague who is familiar with the applicant’s work.
Professional statement of 500 to 1,000 words. The professional statement should focus on the applicant’s reason for seeking formal forensic nursing education, how recent clinical experience has prepared them for forensic nursing practice, career goals after program completion, as well as plans for professional development in the specialty of forensic nursing. The professional statement will be evaluated on content and appropriate use of grammar, style, spelling, and rhetoric.
International Students
International students are encouraged to contact The Graduate School (www.oakland.edu/grad) to determine what additional documentation is required for admission eligibility.
Admission review and assessment
Admission to graduate school at Oakland University is selective. In making admission recommendations to Oakland University Graduate School, the School of Nursing assesses the potential of applicants for success in the program by examining their undergraduate records, goal statement, letters of recommendation, prerequisite courses and any other admission requirements established by the academic department.
Qualified applicants may be selected for an individual interview with a School of Nursing faculty. The interview will be scheduled after all application materials have been submitted.
Certificate requirements
The Graduate Certificate in Forensic Nursing is awarded upon satisfactory completion of 18 credits in an approved program of study and includes a minimum of 500 clinical practice hours. The program of study allows students to complete the requirements in 16 months.
Specialty courses (18 credits)
Specialty courses are comprised of didactic and clinical courses that prepare students for forensic nursing practice.  The specialty courses build upon nursing knowledge and skills learned at the undergraduate level.
NRS 6741 - Foundations of Forensic Nursing Science
(3 credits)
NRS 6771 - Forensic Nursing Considerations Related to Quality, Safety, Risk, and Death
(2 credits)
NRS 6725 - Forensic Nursing Considerations Related to Quality, Safety, Risk, and Death Clinical
(1 credit)
NRS 6761 - Emergency Preparedness and Disaster Management
(2 credits)
NRS 6765 - Emergency Preparedness and Disaster Management Clinical
(1 credit)
NRS 6755 - Interpersonal Violence and Maltreatment
(4 credits)
NRS 6745 - Interpersonal Violence and Maltreatment Clincal
(2 credits)
NRS 6941 - Advanced Forensic Nursing Seminar
(1 credit)
NRS 6785 - Advanced Forensic Nursing Clinical
(3 credits)
Satisfactory academic progress
Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) is the term used to denote a student’s successful completion of coursework toward a certificate or degree. Federal regulations require the Student Financial Services to monitor Satisfactory Academic Progress for all financial aid recipients each semester.
Students who fall behind in their coursework, or fail to achieve minimum standards for grade point average and completion of classes, may lose their eligibility for all types of federal, state and university aid. Contact
Student Financial Services
for additional details.
Good academic standing
All graduate students are expected to remain in
good academic standing
throughout
the entire course of their graduate program. To be in good academic standing, a graduate student must make satisfactory progress toward fulfilling degree requirements, including the completion of critical degree milestones as set forth by the academic program. The student must also maintain a minimum semester and overall GPA of (B) 3.0.
Good academic standing is a requirement for:
Holding a Graduate Assistantship
Receiving a fellowship or scholarship
Advancing to candidacy for a graduate degree
Going on a leave of absence
Obtaining a graduate certificate or degree from Oakland University.
Additionally, graduate students must meet all department academic standards which may be more stringent than the minimum set forth by the University.
Program requirements
:   Students are required to follow the university policies and procedures for graduate students, as described in the Oakland University Graduate Catalog. In addition to the university requirements, specific School of Nursing policies and procedures are outlined in the School of Nursing Graduate Student Handbook.
Students are expected to earn a grade of (B) 3.0 or above in each course in the graduate certificate program. In courses graded Satisfactory/ Unsatisfactory (S/U), students are expected to earn a course grade of satisfactory. Students who are not making satisfactory progress in the program may be placed on probation with conditions imposed for retention in the program or may be recommended for dismissal from the program.
Students are required to keep RN license and health requirements current.  See the School of Nursing Web site for health requirements. Students are also required to meet any requirements of the health care facilities where they have clinical learning experiences.
Graduate students who are not in good academic standing for any reason are subject to probation and/or dismissal from further graduate study.
Related program information
Plan of study
All accepted applicants, in consultation with the FN program director, must develop a plan of study that details specific courses the students will use to satisfy their degree requirements. The plan of study must be signed by the program director and student.
Note:  Credit granted for successful completion of a course toward an undergraduate degree program may not be repeated for a graduate degree. If a substitution is approved, the minimum number of program-approved graduate credits will be required. A
Petition of Exception - OU Course Waiver/ Substitution
requesting the substitution must be approved.
Advising
Students are responsible for requirements and policies stated in the School of Nursing MSN Student Handbook and in each course syllabus. Every student admitted to the graduate certificate program is assigned an academic adviser and program director who are available to discuss coursework, plans of study, concerns regarding progression in the program, and student career goals.
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)

