URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/forensic-nursing/

Master of Science in Nursing
Forensic Nursing
Michigan’s only forensic nursing program equips you for a dynamic career in advanced nursing.
Oakland University is educating the future leaders of the forensic nursing profession. As Michigan’s only forensic nursing program and one of the few nationwide, we prepare you to work with patients who are victims, suspects, or perpetrators of trauma, violence, and maltreatment. Our forensic nursing program stands out for its rigorous curriculum, extensive clinical training and convenient high-tech, high-touch format that integrates online and in-person instruction. You can work full-time while you complete the forensic nursing program, which holds accreditation from the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE). The forensic nursing program was developed in collaboration with forensic nursing’s founder, Virginia Lynch, who calls Oakland University “the forensic nursing pace-setter.” Get ready to take your place at the forefront of this fast-growing nursing specialty.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University is educating the future leaders of the forensic nursing profession. As Michigan’s only forensic nursing program and one of the few nationwide, we prepare you to work with patients who are victims, suspects, or perpetrators of trauma, violence, and maltreatment. Our forensic nursing program stands out for its rigorous curriculum, extensive clinical training and convenient high-tech, high-touch format that integrates online and in-person instruction. You can work full-time while you complete the forensic nursing program, which holds accreditation from the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE). The forensic nursing program was developed in collaboration with forensic nursing’s founder, Virginia Lynch, who calls Oakland University “the forensic nursing pace-setter.” Get ready to take your place at the forefront of this fast-growing nursing specialty.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Forensic Nursing: The Oakland University Advantage
Open to nurses who hold at least a BSN, our forensic nursing program offers a one-of-a-kind opportunity for career advancement. You’ll receive elite education from pioneers in the emerging field of forensic nursing, while interacting with multidisciplinary team members in victim advocacy, the legal system,, public health and law enforcement.
Our
forensic nursing program
is a leader in forensic nursing education for its:
Comprehensive education .
Unlike other programs in this specialty, Oakland’s
forensic nursing program
covers all subspecialities  within the profession. You’ll be equipped to handle cases involving sexual violence, human trafficking, intimate partner violence, child maltreatment, elder maltreatment, death investigation, disaster response and more.
Exceptional clinical experience.
Our
forensic nursing program
includes a minimum of 420 hours of clinical training, compared to the 150 to 300 hours in most other programs. You’ll work with high-quality clinical partners hand-picked by the School of Nursing, eliminating the need to arrange your own clinical experiences in
forensic nursing
.
Superior faculty.
You’ll work with active
forensic nursing
practitioners who teach from firsthand experience. Many of our faculty are engaged in research, and all are attentive, accessible mentors who offer personalized guidance along with classroom instruction.
Tight-knit community.
Although you’ll complete most coursework online, Oakland’s interactive digital platform ensures that you build strong relationships with faculty and peers. Our
forensic nursing students
support one another academically and professionally, a crucial benefit in this mentally and emotionally challenging discipline.
Hands-on technical training.
Forensic nurses
often use specialized equipment when conducting the medical-forensic examinations. You’ll become proficient in advanced assessment and the use of colposcopes, digital cameras, alternative light sources, evidence collection kits, laboratory technology and other tools of the trade.
What Can You Do With a Forensic Nursing Degree?
Forensic nurses
work as independent practitioners and members of a multidisciplinary team that seeks to optimize health and legal outcomes of  victims of trauma, violence and maltreatment.
This unique interdisciplinary role gives
forensic nurses
a variety of career pathways. You may be employed by, and/or collaborate with, many different types of organizations. Examples include:
Hospitals
Community health care clinics
Psychiatric institutions
Correctional facilities
Victims’ advocate organizations
Law enforcement agencies
Coroner and medical examiner offices
Emergency preparedness and first-response units
Judicial agencies
Public health departments
Law firms
The master’s degree program provides you with the preparation to continue your studies in a doctoral nursing program, if you so choose.
Forensic Nursing: What You’ll Learn
Oakland University offers two credentials in
forensic nursing
: a graduate certificate and master of science in nursing. Both
forensic nursing programs
combine online coursework with in-person clinical instruction, giving you the flexibility to work full-time while in the program. You’ll complete 420 hours of clinical training, regardless of which
forensic nursing program
you enter.
The
Graduate Certificate in Forensic Nursing
totals 18 credits, with a 16-month plan of study. It includes a foundational course in
forensic nursing
and specialized courses (with associated clinical experiences) in
Death investigation
Emergency preparedness and disaster management
Interpersonal violence and maltreatment
Advanced forensic nursing
The Master of Science in Nursing:
Forensic Nursing
requires 39 credits and can be completed in 28 months. It includes the same coursework listed above for the
forensic nursing graduate certificate
, plus additional courses in:
Nursing scholarship
Nursing Leadership
Health Policy
Advanced Health assessment
Advanced Pharmacology
Advanced Pathophysiology
Both
forensic nursing
programs equip you with the academic and clinical expertise required to fulfill the diverse roles and responsibilities of
forensic nurses
.
Forensic Nursing Program Resources
Degree Requirements
Graduate Certificate Requirements
Admission requirements
School of Nursing
Programs Related to Forensic Nursing
Not sure if
forensic nursing
is right for you? Check out these other graduate degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Master of Science in Nursing: Acute Care Adult Gerontologic Nurse Practitioner
Master of Science in Nursing: Primary Care Adult Gerontologic Nurse Practitioner
Master of Science in Nursing: Primary Care Family Nurse Practitioner
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

