URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/french-language-and-literatures/

Bachelor of Arts
French
A French degree gives you a passport to a world of career opportunities.
Few majors prepare you to work and live in a global society as a French degree does. Our Bachelor of Arts in French Language and Literature equips you with marketable skills and advanced cultural knowledge, giving you multiple career options and a strong foundation for graduate school. You’ll excel in writing and research, work well on teams, and use technology effectively. Oakland’s French program also offers robust study-abroad opportunities, along with personal faculty attention that helps you gain maturity and professional polish. Whether you’re planning to teach, pursue a doctorate, or simply acquire a broad education, our bachelor’s degree in French provides you with intellectual rigor and cultural elan.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Few majors prepare you to work and live in a global society as a French degree does. Our Bachelor of Arts in French Language and Literature equips you with marketable skills and advanced cultural knowledge, giving you multiple career options and a strong foundation for graduate school. You’ll excel in writing and research, work well on teams, and use technology effectively. Oakland’s French program also offers robust study-abroad opportunities, along with personal faculty attention that helps you gain maturity and professional polish. Whether you’re planning to teach, pursue a doctorate, or simply acquire a broad education, our bachelor’s degree in French provides you with intellectual rigor and cultural elan.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Bachelor’s Degree in French: The Oakland University Advantage
Our French degree pairs rigorous academics with practical workforce preparation. Employers in virtually every industry—including business, computing and health care—seek out new hires who communicate clearly, think independently and possess a multicultural outlook. As a French major, you’ll cultivate sustainable skills that you can adapt over time in response to changing economic trends and technologies.
Other key benefits of our
French degree
include:
International experience.
Our
French degree
includes a variety of options for overseas travel and study. You can spend an entire semester (or more) taking classes at the Université d’Orléans, and/or opt for excursions to Montreal, Belgium, Senegal, Paris and other destinations in the Francophone world. Most of our
French majors
choose to spend time abroad (although it’s not a program requirement).
Personalized instruction.
You’ll enjoy small, intimate classes in Oakland’s
French program
, building strong rapport with your peers and one-one-on relationships with your professors. All of our
French courses
are taught by Ph.D. faculty who take a strong interest in your success, offering academic guidance and career advice along with high-caliber classroom instruction.
Hands-on education.
The
French degree
includes a required capstone project that involves in-depth research, writing and presentation. You can also opt to complete an independent translation project in collaboration with faculty, or work as a volunteer or intern for a local business, nonprofit or other organization.
Fifth-year teaching option.
Oakland is one of Michigan’s most respected training grounds for
French teachers
. The Secondary Teacher Education Program (STEP) enables you to pair the
French degree
with a one-year teaching program that qualifies you for professional certification as a
French teacher
.
What Can You Do With a French Degree ?
Graduates of our
French bachelor’s degree program
are very well qualified for a wide variety of career paths, including graduate studies. Bilingual employees have particular appeal for employers in many industries, including business, tourism, education and government.
At Oakland University, many students pair the
French major
with a degree in business, political science, international relations, art history or another discipline. You can also combine a
French degree
with Oakland’s Secondary Teacher Education Program (STEP), a fifth-year program that prepares you for certification as a K-12
French teacher
.
Recent graduates of our
French program
have gone on to careers in fields such as:
Publishing
Journalism
Government administration
Strategic communication
Higher education
Law
International relations
Nonprofit leadership
International development
French Major: What You’ll Learn
The
bachelor’s degree in French
revolves around an academic core of three courses in spoken French language, a French composition course and a grammar review. You’ll also take required classes in French literature, cinema, and civilization, plus a European literature course. (Introductory-level language courses do not count toward the
French major
.)
The
French program
also includes a senior capstone course involving independent research on a literary or cultural topic. The project culminates in a thesis paper written in French.
Finally, the
French degree
includes four electives, at least two of which must be French literature courses. Sample electives include:
French Business Communication
Translation: French to English
Translation: English to French
French Literature of the 19th Century
Modern and Contemporary French Literature
French Literature of the Middle Ages
Independent Translation Project
Bachelor of Arts in French Resources
Major Requirements
Minor Requirements
Department of Modern Languages and Literatures
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the French Degree
Not sure if the
French major
is right for you ? Check out these other [undergraduate / graduate] degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Bachelor of Arts in Art History
Bachelor of Arts in English
Bachelor of Arts in Linguistics
Bachelor of Arts in History
Current French Internships
Voice Recording Opportunity for Chinese Speakers! at Lionbridge
Freelance Arabic Interpreter (NYC Metro Area) at Accurate Communication
Work From Home Independent Representative at Primerica
Remote Vacation Planner at LEWHJ
Remote Booking Specialist at LEWHJ
Japanese-English Translator at Technical Language Services, Inc.
Adaptive Outdoor Recreation Internship at Breckenridge Outdoor Education Center (BOEC)
Educational Interpreter for the Deaf/Hard of Hearing at Muskegon Area Intermediate School District
Translator/Proofreader Remote Job at Future Student LLC
Text Collection Specialist for Native Spanish (US) Speakers at OneForma
Advanced Interpreter for Deaf and Hard of Hearing at Loudoun County VA Public Schools
NHQ: COMM - Spanish Translator / Proofreader Intern (Spring 2025) at The American Red Cross - National Headquarters
Market Executive, Acquisition Team, Americas at Trip.com Group
Sign Language Interpreter II - Special Education at Mesa Public Schools
Summer Program Leader in Italy at You Travel & Teach
Multilingual Desktop Publishing Specialist at JTG, inc.
EFL/ESL Teacher at Argo TEFL Abroad
Patient Recruitment Intern at Medpace, Inc.
Patient Travel Coordinator at Medpace, Inc.
Tour Guide (Adventure Park, Kayak, Zip Line, Segway) at Door County Adventure Center
Kayak Guide at Door County Adventure Center
Polish Metadata Specialist (Movies & TV Shows) in Austin, TX at Welocalize
Catalan Localization QA Tester at Welocalize
Sign Language Interpreter (Flexible-Hour/Year-Round) at State Center Community College District
Senior Sign Language Interpreter (Flexible-Hour/Year-Round) at State Center Community College District
Senior Sign Language Interpreter (Flexible-Hour/Full-Time) - Reedley College at State Center Community College District
Manga+Game Translator/Editor (Japanese) at MediBang TraDe
Manga+Game Translator/Editor (English) at MediBang TraDe
Full-time Faculty - Global Language and Cultural Studies at Bard Early Colleges / Bard High School Early College (Headquarters)
+ Show More
- Show Less
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

