URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/post-master-grad-certificate-general-management/

Post-Master's Graduate Certificate
General Management
Prepare for a successful career as a business leader with a post-master’s Graduate Certificate in General Management from Oakland University.
The Post-Master's Graduate Certificate in General Management is a 15-credit-hour course of study designed to accommodate individuals with a graduate degree in a non-business field who seek core business knowledge. The program emphasizes coursework that covers the major disciplines within the field of business. Upon completion, students will have core knowledge of common business practices and corporate procedures.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
The Post-Master's Graduate Certificate in General Management is a 15-credit-hour course of study designed to accommodate individuals with a graduate degree in a non-business field who seek core business knowledge. The program emphasizes coursework that covers the major disciplines within the field of business. Upon completion, students will have core knowledge of common business practices and corporate procedures.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Post-Master’s Graduate Certificate in General Management: The Oakland University Advantage
There are many features that help set our program apart from other business master’s certificate programs around the country. From our personalized advising and expert faculty to our thriving business community in Southeast Michigan, we have everything you need to excel as a business leader.
As a student in our graduate certificate program, you’ll benefit from:
An engaged community:
One of the most important aspects of earning a post-master’s certificate and entering business is building a solid network of peers and other business professionals who can help you as you begin your career. That’s why we have many
student organizations
and maintain
corporate partnerships
with companies and organizations around the Michigan area and beyond.
Career preparedness:
We work hard to ensure our graduate certificate students are exceptionally prepared professionals. Businesses and graduate business degree programs worldwide seek them out for their expert leadership traits. When you earn your post-master’s certificate in general management at OU, you’ll have access to our
Career and Life Design Center
— which can help you build marketable skills and benefit from career consultation.
Expert mentorship:
Each of our post-master’s certificate students works closely with an assigned faculty adviser to design a unique plan of study to satisfy graduate certificate requirements.
School of Business Administration
faculty bring their decades of professional and education experience into their classes to prepare students for rewarding careers in business and as leaders in their fields.
What Can You Do With a Post-Master’s Certificate in General Management?
We’ve designed our master’s certificate in general management for students who hold a graduate degree in a non-business field and who want to gain business skills and knowledge. With just 15 credit hours, you’ll develop the core knowledge of common business practices and corporate procedures that could lead to a new career as business executive or manager, or as a leader within your current field.
Maybe you hold a graduate degree in art and would like to open your own gallery? Perhaps you have a graduate degree in physical education and dream of managing a gym and helping others stay healthy? Whatever your goal, earning a master’s certificate in general management from OU will give you the strong foundation to grow professionally for decades to come.
The courses that you complete in our graduate certificate program can be transferred to a graduate business degree program — saving you valuable time and money.
Some of the careers you could pursue with a post-master’s certificate in general management from Oakland University include:
Business manager
Director of operations
Entrepreneur
General or operations manager
Production supervisor
Shift manager
Top Courses for the Master’s Certificate in General Management
We offer a comprehensive graduate certificate program that covers essential business topics and skills such as international business, business law, operations management and economics. The knowledge and skills you’ll gain in our general management master’s certificate courses can prepare you for prestigious graduate business degree programs and business careers around the globe.
Some of the rigorous courses you could take as you earn your post-master’s certificate include:
Enterprise Information Systems
Financial Accounting
Legal Environment of Business
Marketing Management
Organizational Behavior
Post-Master’s Graduate Certificate in General Management Program Resources
Post-Master’s Graduate Certificate in General Management Requirements
School of Business Administration
Programs Related to the Post-Master’s Certificate in General Management
Not sure if the Graduate Certificate in General Management is right for you? Check out these other graduate certificate programs at Oakland and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Accounting
Business Economics
Entrepreneurship
International Business
Management Information Systems
Production/Operations Management
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

