URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/higher-education-leadership/

Master of Education
Higher Education Leadership
Develop innovative ideas, theoretical expertise, and creative vision to accelerate your higher education leadership career.
Oakland University’s M.Ed. in Higher Educational Leadership (MAHEL) prepares you to meet the complex challenges facing today’s institutions. Our higher education leadership degree equips you with practical expertise to improve student outcomes and achieve greater equity and inclusiveness in higher education. You’ll gain the ability to translate social justice values into applied policies and practices, while acquiring hands-on training in student affairs, academic affairs, admissions, counseling, or another aspect of higher educational leadership. Our higher education leadership master’s degree prepares you to address the complex challenges facing today’s institutions and prepare students of all backgrounds for economic and social success.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University’s M.Ed. in Higher Educational Leadership (MAHEL) prepares you to meet the complex challenges facing today’s institutions. Our higher education leadership degree equips you with practical expertise to improve student outcomes and achieve greater equity and inclusiveness in higher education. You’ll gain the ability to translate social justice values into applied policies and practices, while acquiring hands-on training in student affairs, academic affairs, admissions, counseling, or another aspect of higher educational leadership. Our higher education leadership master’s degree prepares you to address the complex challenges facing today’s institutions and prepare students of all backgrounds for economic and social success.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Master’s Degree in Higher Education Leadership: The Oakland University Advantage
Graduates of our higher education leadership program stand out in the job market. About 90 percent have jobs in higher education leadership within 3 months of completing the master’s degree.
Employers actively recruit Oakland students because of our program’s:
Social justice orientation.
Many institutions are strongly committed to diversifying their faculty and broadening access to students from underrepresented populations. Our higher education leadership degree puts specific emphasis on equity and inclusion, giving you a powerful advantage in the higher education job market.
Robust workplace experience.
After completing your coursework, you’ll gain hands-on training via an internship that’s hand-picked to fit your interests and career goals.
Superior faculty.
Our master’s program in is led by nationally recognized experts in higher education leadership. You’ll learn from active, well-connected researchers and writers who sit at the forefront of higher education reform.
Tight-knit community.
Oakland’s higher education leadership program is built on a culture of collaboration and mutual support. You and your classmates will move through the program as a cohort, developing camaraderie and relationships that form the beginnings of a professional network.
Flexibility and convenience.
Our master’s in higher education leadership is designed for working adults who need to balance education with professional responsibilities. You can choose from one- and two-year degree options, with both online and on-campus formats available.
What Can You Do With a Master’s Degree in Higher Education Leadership?
Oakland University is committed to training transformative higher education leaders who are prepared to solve problems, reform systems and improve student outcomes. You’ll be qualified for higher education administration careers in areas such as:
Housing
Diversity and equity services
Student activities
Fundraising and philanthropy
Study abroad/international education
Academic advising
Athletic and recreation programs
Admissions
Financial aid
Facilities management
Human resources
Faculty support
Pre-college and community collaboration
Higher Education Leadership Master’s Degree: What You’ll Study
The M.Ed. in Higher Education Leadership requires 32 credits (seven courses and a capstone internship). The core sequence includes an introductory course, plus courses addressing historical perspectives and educational equity. You’ll then take additional courses that cover practice-based aspects of student and academic affairs:
Introduction to Academic Affairs
Leading Effective Organizations (Higher Education Leadership)
Introduction to Student Affairs
Counseling and Advising the College Student
College Student Development
Current Topics in Higher Education
Master’s in Higher Education Leadership Program Resources
Admission requirements
Program Requirements
Department of Organizational Leadership
School of Education and Human Services
Programs Related to the Master of Education in Higher Education Leadership
Not sure if the Master of Education in Higher Education Leadership is right for you ? Check out these other graduate degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Graduate Certificate in Human Diversity, Inclusion and Social Justice
Post-Master’s Certificate in Higher Education
Ph.D. in Educational Leadership
Ed. D in Organizational Leadership
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

