URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/graduate-certificate-hr-management/

Graduate Certificate
HR Management
Develop your organization’s most valuable resources and bolster your professional qualifications with a Graduate Certificate in Human Resource Management.
Ready for the next phase in your career? Whether you’re a seasoned professional or just beginning your journey in HR, Oakland University’s Graduate Certificate in Human Resource Management will prepare you for what’s next.
Our 12-credit program equips you with the knowledge and expertise to enhance your organization’s performance through practical, real-world human resource management skills. You’ll graduate ready to contribute to a high-performing organization by providing strategic guidance and practical assistance to both employees and leadership.
Plus, you can earn OU’s human resource management graduate certificate in-person or completely online, making it easy to fit into your busy lifestyle.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Ready for the next phase in your career? Whether you’re a seasoned professional or just beginning your journey in HR, Oakland University’s Graduate Certificate in Human Resource Management will prepare you for what’s next.
Our 12-credit program equips you with the knowledge and expertise to enhance your organization’s performance through practical, real-world human resource management skills. You’ll graduate ready to contribute to a high-performing organization by providing strategic guidance and practical assistance to both employees and leadership.
Plus, you can earn OU’s human resource management graduate certificate in-person or completely online, making it easy to fit into your busy lifestyle.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Human Resource Management Graduate Certificate: The Oakland University Advantage
As a graduate student at Oakland University, you have access to a world-class business administration program that will help you master your skills and knowledge in HR management.
The benefits of earning a Graduate Certificate in Human Resource Management include:
Unlocking your career potential:
Move up the HR ladder or break into your role with knowledge and credentials that will help you stand out. OU’s in-person or online HR management courses like Business Ethics and Organizational Behavior prepare you to successfully counsel employees as well as management.
Learning from expert faculty:
Thanks to OU’s small class sizes, you’ll work directly with renowned professors in the School of Business Administration who have decades of experience as management leaders, scholars and researchers. Enjoy personal interactions that help shape your Graduate Certificate in Human Resource Management with real-world perspectives.
Getting closer to an MBA:
Through OU’s human resource management graduate certificate program, you’ll earn 12 credits that can be applied toward an Oakland University MBA degree. You can tailor that MBA degree to your own career goals by selecting one of 10 concentrations, including human resource management.
Increased promotions and leadership roles:
According to Payscale.com, HR professionals who hold certificates are promoted faster and tend to hold positions of higher authority. The ROI from earning a Graduate Certificate in Human Resource Management paves the way for substantial professional and personal growth.
Experiencing a best-in-class program:
U.S. News & World Report
and The Princeton Review have both ranked OU’s School of Business Administration as one of the nation’s best for graduate students. Plus, the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) awarded OU dual accreditation in business and accounting, placing us in the top 1% of business schools worldwide.
What Can You Do With a Graduate Certificate in Human Resource Management?
OU’s human resource management graduate certificate is ideal for students holding a bachelor’s degree who are interested in:
Developing specific human resource management capabilities without committing to a master’s degree program
Building skills to launch or advance in a human resource management position
Sharpening existing expertise and enhancing a resume
Your experience as a graduate student with a human resource management certificate can translate to a wide variety of career positions or promotions, including:
Compensation and benefits specialist or manager
Human resources specialist or manager
Job analyst
Labor relations specialist or manager
Recruiter
Talent specialist
Training and development specialist or manager
Top Courses for Human Resource Management Graduate Certificate
Our Graduate Certificate in Human Resource Management is available completely online or in-person, giving you the flexibility to choose the learning format that works best for your lifestyle and existing commitments.
You’ll complete 12 credits of coursework, including nine credits of core requirements:
Legal Environment of Business
Organizational Behavior
Strategic Human Resource Management
In addition, you’ll dive deeper into complex personnel and management issues today’s organizations face with courses like:
Business Ethics
Change Management
Creativity
Decision Making in Organizations
International Organizational Behavior and Human Resources
Leadership and Group Performance
Leading Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in Organizations
Motivation and Work Behavior
Special Topics in Organizational Behavior
Human Resource Management Graduate Certificate Resources
Graduate Certificate Requirements
Graduate Business Programs
School of Business Administration
Programs Related to the Human Resource Management Graduate Certificate
Not sure if the Graduate Certificate in Human Resource Management is right for you? Check out these other graduate degree and certificate programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Business Analytics Graduate Certificate
Business Essentials Graduate Certificate
Master of Business Administration
Executive MBA Program
Online Master of Business Administration
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

