URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/diversity-inclusion-social-justice/

Graduate Certificate
Human Diversity, Inclusion and Social Justice
Help meet the growing demand for workforce diversity, multicultural inclusion and socioeconomic equity.
Organizations of all kinds are committed to diversifying their workforce and customer base, but they often lack the expertise to succeed. You can fill this important niche with Oakland University’s Graduate Certificate in Human Diversity, Inclusion and Social Justice. The only program of its kind in the state of Michigan, our diversity and inclusion certificate equips you with practical skills that are in growing demand. You’ll learn how to design and implement policies to promote diversity, equity and inclusion in universities, nonprofit agencies, public programs and other organizational settings. Whether you’re already employed or just starting your career, Oakland’s one-of-a-kind diversity and inclusion certificate gives you marketable skills that have great professional and personal value.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Organizations of all kinds are committed to diversifying their workforce and customer base, but they often lack the expertise to succeed. You can fill this important niche with Oakland University’s Graduate Certificate in Human Diversity, Inclusion and Social Justice. The only program of its kind in the state of Michigan, our diversity and inclusion certificate equips you with practical skills that are in growing demand. You’ll learn how to design and implement policies to promote diversity, equity and inclusion in universities, nonprofit agencies, public programs and other organizational settings. Whether you’re already employed or just starting your career, Oakland’s one-of-a-kind diversity and inclusion certificate gives you marketable skills that have great professional and personal value.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Graduate Certificate in Human Diversity, Inclusion and Social Justice: The Oakland University Advantage
As the only graduate certificate in Michigan specifically focused on diversity and social justice, this program adds value to your resume and sets you apart in the job market. You can earn the diversity and inclusion certificate as a stand-alone credential, or you can pair it with a graduate degree in a related discipline such as organizational leadership, education or counseling. Either way, the diversity and inclusion certificate prepares you for specialized workforce diversity positions.
Our program provides:
Personalized curriculum.
The Graduate Certificate in Human Diversity, Inclusion and Social Justice has flexible course offerings, so you can tailor your studies to fit your professional needs and academic interests. The program integrates concepts and coursework from organizational leadership, counseling, education, history, social work and many other disciplines.
Broad career opportunities.
Diversity and inclusion professionals are in demand across many industries and sectors. You can find diversity-related jobs in human resources, nonprofit development, public administration, higher education, business management, healthcare and many other fields.
Hands-on research.
The diversity and social justice program culminates in a capstone project consisting of original research. You’ll investigate a problem or question related to workforce diversity, social justice or inclusion, and set forth your findings in an academic paper and presentation.
Highly qualified faculty.
Oakland University’s graduate diversity and inclusion certificate program is led by Dr. Chaunda L. Scott, a nationally recognized expert in the field of workforce diversity. You’ll also learn from experienced practitioners in diversity and social justice education, legal experts, and social science researchers representing a variety of professional fields.
Transferable credits.
You can apply coursework in the diversity and inclusion certificate program toward a master’s or doctoral degree. The program is associated with Oakland’s Master of Training and Development degree and the Ed.D in Organizational Leadership.
What Can You Do With a Graduate Certificate in Human Diversity, Inclusion and Social Justice?
The human diversity, inclusion, and social justice certificate program  prepares you for a variety of specialized roles, ranging from ground-floor positions to specialized management jobs. Because many organizations have a strategic commitment to diversity and inclusion, you can find abundant entry-level and mid-managerial positions that lead to executive-level positions. Some examples include:
Diversity recruiter
Diversity trainer
Multicultural program coordinator
Diversity and inclusion manager
Diversity education specialist
Director of diversity and inclusion programs
Diversity program specialist
Human Resources diversity coordinator
Inclusion program director
Graduate Certificate in Human Diversity, Inclusion and Social Justice: What You’ll Learn
This certificate program comprises four to five courses, including a required introductory course and a required capstone project. In addition, you’ll choose elective courses that align with your professional and academic goals.
Electives can be selected from various academic departments within the School of Education and Human Services (or, with approval, from disciplines that fall outside the School). Sample electives include:
Introduction to Human Diversity Inclusion and Social Justice
Introduction to Students With Special Needs
Higher Education and Educational Equity
Women and Gender Issues
Equity in the Classroom
Diverse Learners and the Curriculum
Overview of Autism Spectrum Disorder
African Cultural History
Communication and Cultural Citizenship
Sexuality and Communication
Graduate Certificate in Human Diversity, Inclusion and Social Justice Program Resources
Admission requirements
Department of Organizational Leadership
School of Education and Human Services
Programs Related to the Graduate Certificate in Human Diversity, Inclusion and Social Justice
Additional graduate programs that may be of interest to you are listed below. To inquire about these  graduate programs at Oakland, contact our graduate admissions team to discuss your options.
Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership
Graduate Certificate in Lean Leadership
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

