URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/master-industrial-applied-math/

Master of Science
Industrial Applied Mathematics
Discover how a math master's degree can boost your credentials and open new doors of opportunity in the field of industrial mathematics.
With a master's in mathematics from Oakland University, you'll learn to use mathematical theories, tools, and techniques to solve complex industrial problems. Our applied math master's program equips you with the foundational knowledge to take your industrial mathematics job to the next level and serves as the groundwork for a Ph.D. in applied mathematics. Created in consultation with leaders in Michigan’s innovative, globally connected industrial community, our master's in mathematics program propels you to the forefront of a forward-thinking technical field. The skills you'll gain as a computational problem-solver with a math master's degree will help you stand out in the job market, maximize your earning potential, and boost your career prospects.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
With a master's in mathematics from Oakland University, you'll learn to use mathematical theories, tools, and techniques to solve complex industrial problems. Our applied math master's program equips you with the foundational knowledge to take your industrial mathematics job to the next level and serves as the groundwork for a Ph.D. in applied mathematics. Created in consultation with leaders in Michigan’s innovative, globally connected industrial community, our master's in mathematics program propels you to the forefront of a forward-thinking technical field. The skills you'll gain as a computational problem-solver with a math master's degree will help you stand out in the job market, maximize your earning potential, and boost your career prospects.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Master's in Mathematics: The Oakland University Advantage
With a strong history of producing successful graduates, OU's math master's degree offers two tracks: continuous mathematics and discrete mathematics. Both are offered in convenient hybrid course formats with late-afternoon or evening applied math classes to fit your busy schedule. Small class sizes give you the opportunity to learn from mathematician experts who are leaders in the field.
Our master's in mathematics degree offers:
Renowned faculty researchers.
You’ll work with distinguished professors who conduct NSF-funded research and are breaking new ground in industrial mathematics. These real-world experts understand the field and know what it takes to be successful in an industrial mathematics job.
Professional insight.
We designed our applied math master's degree in collaboration with Michigan's industry leaders, giving you the ultimate edge. When you pursue our math master's degree, you'll be part of a revolutionary partnership that strengthens the technology of industry in Southeast Michigan.
Practical, experiential learning.
Your industrial mathematics lab courses offer hands-on opportunity to solve complex application problems using prominent scientific programming languages like MATLAB. This real-world experience gives you a competitive advantage and equips you with an enhanced skill set for industrial mathematics jobs.
An unbeatable location.
Conveniently situated in Automation Alley and about 40 minutes from Detroit, Oakland is literally next door to some of the world’s largest manufacturers and suppliers — the perfect place to advance your career in industrial mathematics. You can explore opportunities with employers like General Motors, BorgWarner, Lear, Faurecia, and more.
Affordability and flexibility.
Our math master's degree can be completed in two years, with classes offered on campus and online, in the late afternoon and evenings. You can fulfill your dream of earning an advanced master's in mathematics while balancing your work and life responsibilities. And full-time students can save even more on tuition by earning a teaching assistantship.
What Can You Do With a Math Master's Degree?
Our master's degree in mathematics equips you with the knowledge and experience needed for career advancement and professional success.
According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the projected growth rate for mathematicians and statisticians is 31 percent between now and 2030 — much faster than the average for other occupations. Mathematicians with a math master's degree earn a median annual salary of $108,100, and enjoy industrial mathematics jobs like:
Actuarial analyst
Algorithm engineer
Cryptographer
GIS analyst
Risk consulting associate
Statistician
Quantitative analyst
Applied Math Master's Degree Curriculum
To be eligible for a master's in mathematics, you must have a bachelor's degree from an accredited institution with a minimum 3.0 GPA. Your previous mathematical training should include courses in multivariable calculus, linear algebra, and differential equations, as well as knowledge of at least one high-level scientific programming language (Pascal, Fortran, C or PL/1).
If you qualify for admission, you'll complete 32 credits of graduate coursework to earn a math master's degree, including an approved research project in the field of industrial mathematics.
You’ll take four courses within one of two tracks (continuous or discrete), plus one of the following core master's in mathematics requirements:
Mathematical Modeling in Industry: Discrete Models
Mathematical Modeling in Industry: Continuous Models
Mathematical Modeling in Industry: Operations Research Models
Math Master's Program Resources
Program Requirements
Department of Mathematics and Statistics
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Master's in Mathematics Degree
Not sure if a math master's degree is right for you? Check out these other graduate degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
MS in Applied Statistics
MA in Mathematics
MS in Business Analytics
Graduate Certificate in Statistical Methods
Graduate Certificate in Business Analytics
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

