URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/industrial-and-systems-engineering-ms/

Masters of Science
Industrial and Systems Engineering
There’s no better place to prepare for an industrial engineering career.
Industrial engineering jobs require a big-picture perspective, and Oakland University is the perfect place to broaden your vision. Our master’s degree in industrial and systems engineering offers practical, comprehensive training in one of the world’s most vibrant commercial centers. You’ll work in state-of-the-art labs on campus, with the opportunity to gain real-world experience with global leaders in engineering, automotive, manufacturing, health care, energy and other sectors. You’ll graduate with a industrial and systems engineering master’s degree that employers respect, along with the strategic skills and professional polish to succeed in your industrial engineering career.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Industrial engineering jobs require a big-picture perspective, and Oakland University is the perfect place to broaden your vision. Our master’s degree in industrial and systems engineering offers practical, comprehensive training in one of the world’s most vibrant commercial centers. You’ll work in state-of-the-art labs on campus, with the opportunity to gain real-world experience with global leaders in engineering, automotive, manufacturing, health care, energy and other sectors. You’ll graduate with a industrial and systems engineering master’s degree that employers respect, along with the strategic skills and professional polish to succeed in your industrial engineering career.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Industrial and Systems Engineering: The Oakland University Advantage
Because we’re located in one of the nation’s busiest commercial centers, Oakland University offers an ideal setting for a graduate degree in industrial engineering. You’ll gain hands-on training in a diverse, dynamic community, putting you at the forefront of current trends and innovations in the profession.
Our
industrial and systems engineering master’s program
stands out for its:
Career-oriented training.
You’ll develop a comprehensive skill set that qualifies you to break into
industrial engineering
or earn a promotion if you’re already in the profession. Flexible degree requirements enable you to align your studies with your career goals, with options to specialize in
industrial engineering
niches such as, ergonomics/human factors, Industry 4.0, data analytics, quality control, lean, simulation or strategic leadership.
Industry connections.
Oakland University’s extensive partnerships throughout Southeast Michigan create exceptional opportunities for interaction with seasoned
industrial engineers
from diverse backgrounds. You’ll build relationships that deepen your knowledge, expand your professional network and promote your
industrial engineering career
.
Superior facilities.
The School of Engineering and Computer Science maintains an world-class suite of
industrial and systems engineering
labs for hands-on learning and research. Our facilities include the Lean Learning Lab, Human-Centered Engineering Lab, Sharf Computer-Integrated Manufacturing Lab, and Product Lifecycle Management Lab, where you can work with Industry 4.0 software tools such as Teamcenter, Plant Simulation, Jack, Process Simulate and MindSphere.
Strong faculty attention.
You’ll learn in small classes from seasoned instructors who take a personal interest in your academic and career success. All of our faculty hold Ph.Ds in
industrial and systems engineering
or a related field, combining academic distinction with relevant industry expertise.
Accessibility and convenience.
Our master’s
degree in industrial engineering
caters to working professionals with full-time jobs. The program is open to students from all engineering disciplines, with evening and online courses to accommodate your work schedule.
What Can You Do With a Master’s Degree in Industrial and Systems Engineering?
According to a recent report from the Michigan Workforce Intelligence Network, postings for
industrial engineering jobs
are more numerous than for any other engineering specialty. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics projects above-average growth in
industrial engineering jobs
between now and 2028, with median salaries of nearly $90,000 per year.
Employers in every industry require
industrial and systems engineers
, giving you a wide range of choices in the
industrial engineering job
market. While you can find excellent opportunities in nearly every industry,
industrial engineering jobs
are especially plentiful in global industries such as:
Automotive
Health care
Computer hardware
Consumer electronics
Manufacturing
Energy
Transportation
Defense manufacturing
Master of Industrial and Systems Engineering: What You’ll Learn
The
industrial and systems engineering master’s degree
consists of 32 credits overall. The required academic core includes at least one course in theory and three in applied practice, with broad flexibility in course selection.
The remainder of the degree comprises electives, enabling you to deepen your expertise in specialized areas that align with your professional goals. Elective courses cover a wide spectrum of topics in
industrial engineering
, ranging from cutting-edge technology to leadership, business strategy, data analysis, Industry 4.0 tools and beyond. Specific electives address topics such as:
Product lifecycle management (PLM)
Supply chain analysis
Artificial intelligence
Engineering project management
Energy conservation
Productivity analysis
Lean principles
E-commerce
Decision analysis
Computer-integrated manufacturing
Healthcare informatics
Global competition
Industrial and Systems Engineering Master’s Degree Resources
Program Requirements
Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering
School of Engineering and Computer Science
Programs Related to the Master’s Degree in Industrial and Systems Engineering
Not sure if the industrial and systems engineering degree is right for you? Check out these other graduate engineering programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Master of Science in Engineering Management
Master of Science in Systems Engineering
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

