URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/information-security-management/

Graduate Certificate
Information Security Management
Our information security management program equips you with advanced cyber security skills that increase your professional value.
Data protection and cyber security are universal needs in today’s digitally driven economy. Oakland University’s graduate certificate in information security management offers a practical, accessible way to add network, mobile and cyber security expertise to your professional tool kit. A widely recognized leader in cyber security education, Oakland developed the information security management certificate to serve students from all backgrounds, regardless of prior IT experience. You’ll learn from top researchers and innovators in information security management, acquiring up-to-the-minute knowledge that reflects the most current changes in this constantly evolving field. Designed for working professionals, our information security management certificate equips you with skills that deliver an immediate return to your current employer and raise your long-range earning potential.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Data protection and cyber security are universal needs in today’s digitally driven economy. Oakland University’s graduate certificate in information security management offers a practical, accessible way to add network, mobile and cyber security expertise to your professional tool kit. A widely recognized leader in cyber security education, Oakland developed the information security management certificate to serve students from all backgrounds, regardless of prior IT experience. You’ll learn from top researchers and innovators in information security management, acquiring up-to-the-minute knowledge that reflects the most current changes in this constantly evolving field. Designed for working professionals, our information security management certificate equips you with skills that deliver an immediate return to your current employer and raise your long-range earning potential.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Information Security Management: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland University is a national leader in the fields of cyber security and information security management. Recognized as a National Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education in 2018, we house pioneering facilities and research initiatives in information security and cyber security.
In our
information security management certificate
program, you will:
Acquire relevant, hands-on experience.
Oakland’s Security Network Instructional Lab enables you to detect and counteract
cyber security
threats in a safe environment. You’ll work directly with configuration tools,  firewalls, encryption and other
cyber security
defenses on a training system that simulates real-world networks.
Learn from expert instructors.
Our
information security management
faculty include some of the nation’s top authorities on network and
cyber security
. You’ll take courses from industry leaders who publish high-profile research and consult with global corporations and government agencies on
information security
.
Get an interdisciplinary education.
Cyber security
is a societal issue that lies at the intersection of many disciplines, including business, computer science, criminal justice and public administration. Our
information security management certificate
draws concepts and material from all of these fields, giving you a multi-faceted perspective that addresses your organization’s needs holistically.
Stay abreast of the most current tools and technology.
Information technology
is constantly evolving, and Oakland University is at the cutting edge of the industry. You’ll work with the most up-to-date tools in network, mobile and
cyber security
and
IT management
, including next-generation technology that puts you ahead of the curve.
Gain real-world experience.
Most courses include hands-on project-based assignments with local companies. In addition to upgrading your skills, these projects stand out on your resume and help you establish relationships with potential employers.
What Can You Do With a Graduate Certificate in Information Security Management?
We designed the
information security management  graduate certificate
for working professionals who want to diversify their skills and bring added value to their employers.  The program is particularly well suited to employees in small organizations that don’t have the need and/or the resources for a dedicated  information or
cyber security manager
.  The graduate certificate qualifies you to perform functions such as:
Guard  intellectual property and competitive intelligence
Protect confidential, private and sensitive information from unauthorized use
Implement secure e-commerce or donation portals
Safeguard internal communications
Defend your IT systems against spyware and malware
The
information security management certificate
can also serve as a practical, affordable first step toward a
cyber security career
. You’ll gain expertise that’s in extremely high demand, while building credits that you can apply at a later date toward a
master’s degree in information technology management
.
Information Security Management Graduate Certificate: What You’ll Learn
The
information security management graduate certificate
is open to students from all academic backgrounds. You do not need a computer- or IT-related undergraduate degree to enroll.
The program consists of 15 credits in all, beginning with the following three required courses:
Cyber Security Fundamentals
IS Security
IS Risk Analysis and Security Controls
You’ll complete the
information security management certificate
with two electives, choosing from course options in:
Networks
Network and security management
Mobile device security and app security development
Information systems Privacy
Legal compliance and ethics
If desired, you can apply all 15 credits toward a Master of Science in Information Technology Management (MSITM).
Information Security Management Certificate Program Resources
Program Requirements
School of Business Administration
Programs Related to the Information Security Management Certificate
Not sure if the Graduate Certificate in Information Security Management is right for you ? Check out these other graduate programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Master of Science in Information Technology Management
Master of Science in Cybersecurity
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

