URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/information-technology-management-ms/

Master of Science
Information Technology Management
Oakland University IT master’s degree gives you a competitive edge in one of the job market’s hottest niches.
Information technology management is one of the fastest-growing employment sectors, and IT manager salaries are rising accordingly. Few programs prepare you to fill this niche as well as Oakland University’s master in information technology management. In addition to building advanced technical proficiency, you’ll develop superior management skills that qualify you for high-level leadership. With specializations in business analytics and information security, our IT management master’s degree gives you a strategic perspective that equips you to design impactful, value-added information technology management solutions. You can earn our master’s in information technology management either in person or online, as a stand-alone graduate degree or in a 4+1 format. Either way, you’ll build marketable skills and experience that advance your IT management career.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Information technology management is one of the fastest-growing employment sectors, and IT manager salaries are rising accordingly. Few programs prepare you to fill this niche as well as Oakland University’s master in information technology management. In addition to building advanced technical proficiency, you’ll develop superior management skills that qualify you for high-level leadership. With specializations in business analytics and information security, our IT management master’s degree gives you a strategic perspective that equips you to design impactful, value-added information technology management solutions. You can earn our master’s in information technology management either in person or online, as a stand-alone graduate degree or in a 4+1 format. Either way, you’ll build marketable skills and experience that advance your IT management career.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Master in Information Technology Management: The Oakland University Advantage
Organizations are willing to pay high IT manager salaries because they recognize that excellent information technology management confers a strong competitive advantage. Likewise, our information technology management master’s degree gives you an edge in the job market. We take a results-oriented approach that teaches you how to use information technology to solve business challenges.
Our MSITM degree stands out for its:
Real-world orientation.
You’ll receive a practical, hands-on IT management education that gets you out of the classroom and into the community. Oakland University has extensive partnerships in the public, private and nonprofit sectors, which you can leverage to obtain internships, case-based projects, research inquiries and other applied learning opportunities.
Career specializations.
You can customize the master in information technology management by specializing in one of two highly marketable areas of IT expertise: business analytics and information security management.
Exceptional faculty.
Our IT management master’s program is led by nationally recognized experts, including leaders in both academic research and applied business practice. You’ll get a well-rounded perspective on information technology management that integrates theoretical concepts and hands-on application.
Research facilities.
We house three major data repositories on campus: the Southeast Michigan Economic Data Center, Center for Data Science and Big Data Analytics, and Center for Cybersecurity. All three support independent academic research and consult with organizations in the community. They also give you access to vast databases, state-of-the-art hardware and advanced programming capabilities.
Stellar reputation.
Employers recognize a Oakland University business degree as a mark of quality. In addition to national recognition from
US News & World Report
,
CEO Magazine
, The Princeton Review and other publications, we hold special dual accreditation from the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), a distinction shared by fewer than 1 percent of the world’s business schools.
Benefits for international students.
Oakland University’s MSITM program is STEM-coded. Therefore, international students who receive the MSITM degree can apply for a 24-month STEM extension of their Optional Practical Training (OPT).
What can you do with a master in information technology management degree?
Master in Information Technology Management Careers
The Bureau of Labor Statistics expects information technology management jobs to grow nearly twice as fast as employment in the overall economy. IT manager salaries are rising just as fast, as employers in nearly every industry compete for information technology managers to address their cybersecurity, business analytics, and other IT needs.
After completing your master’s degree in information technology management, you may find employment (or earn a promotion) in areas such as:
Business analysis
Enterprise architecture
Information assurance
Network security
IT strategy consulting
Data analytics
Database management
Master in Information Technology Management: What You’ll Study
MSITM curriculum emphasizes the use of information technology to address business challenges. Coursework focuses on the essential areas of data management, business analytics, information security, and information systems strategy.
You can customize the course sequence with an optional concentration in either business analytics or cybersecurity. Regardless of specialization, the information technology management master’s degree includes core courses in subjects such as:
Enterprise information systems
Quantitative methods
Systems analysis
Databases and data warehousing
Networks
Business modeling
Software programming
Project management
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

