URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/graduate-certificate-business/

Graduate Certificate
LEADERSHIP IN BUSINESS
Unleash your true leadership potential and elevate your success with a leadership in business graduate certificate from Oakland University.
Looking to strengthen your management abilities and enhance your executive potential? Oakland University’s leadership in business graduate certificate will equip you with the knowledge and experience you need to take your career to the next level. Designed for early and mid-career professionals who are preparing to advance to management positions, our 15-credit business management certificate offers real-world managerial experiences that are highly sought-after by today’s employers.
Through hands-on experiential learning you’ll develop the mindset, confidence and skills needed to effectively lead high-performing teams with integrity, determination and a clear sense of purpose. Our business management certificate is available in-person, online and in hybrid formats, giving you the flexibility to pursue your graduate certificate while managing existing personal and professional responsibilities.
Whichever path of learning you choose, OU’s leadership in business graduate certificate will advance your management potential and propel your success.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Looking to strengthen your management abilities and enhance your executive potential? Oakland University’s leadership in business graduate certificate will equip you with the knowledge and experience you need to take your career to the next level. Designed for early and mid-career professionals who are preparing to advance to management positions, our 15-credit business management certificate offers real-world managerial experiences that are highly sought-after by today’s employers.
Through hands-on experiential learning you’ll develop the mindset, confidence and skills needed to effectively lead high-performing teams with integrity, determination and a clear sense of purpose. Our business management certificate is available in-person, online and in hybrid formats, giving you the flexibility to pursue your graduate certificate while managing existing personal and professional responsibilities.
Whichever path of learning you choose, OU’s leadership in business graduate certificate will advance your management potential and propel your success.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Leadership in Business Graduate Certificate: The Oakland University Advantage
As a graduate student at Oakland University, you’ll benefit from a nationally accredited and recognized business administration program that will help you sharpen your skills and expand your expertise in leadership and management.
In addition, OU's business management certificate offers:
Relevant, hands-on professional development:
Through our business graduate program, you’ll participate in real team assignments, which not only enhance your professional relationships but also enrich your resume, making you stand out to potential employers. You’ll cultivate core leadership competencies
in areas like strategic planning, change management, problem-solving, collaboration, communication and team-building.
Knowledge from experienced faculty:
As a graduate student in our leadership in business program, you’ll learn from well-known faculty experts who regularly engage in leadership research and publish their work in leading academic journals. Our professors also participate in OU’s nationally recognized Leadership Academy, which helps university leaders acquire and develop the tools and mindset they need to thrive in their careers.
Flexible course formats to fit your busy life:
Whether you prefer to take classes in-person after work or on your own time through online learning, or a mix of both, OU’s business management certificate is available in several convenient options. Here, you have the flexibility to pursue your graduate certificate while juggling your current personal and professional commitments.
Progress toward an MBA:
Through OU’s leadership in business graduate certificate program, you’ll earn credits that can be applied toward an Oakland University MBA degree. The MBA can be customized to align with your specific career objectives, with the option to choose from several concentrations, including production/operations management, supply chain management, entrepreneurship and management information systems.
A nationally recognized reputation:
OU’s School of Business Administration has been recognized by U.S. News & World Report and The Princeton Review as one of the nation’s best for graduate students. Additionally, the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) granted OU dual accreditation in both business and accounting, positioning us among the top 1% of business schools worldwide.
What Can You Do With a Leadership in Business Graduate Certificate
OU’s business management certificate is ideal for students holding a bachelor’s degree who are interested in:
Developing leadership capabilities without committing to a master’s degree program
Building skills to launch or advance to a management position
Sharpening existing expertise and enhancing a resume
Your experience as a graduate student with a leadership in business graduate certificate can translate to a wide variety of career positions or promotions in industries like:
Business
Education
Finance
Government
Healthcare
Human Resources
IT
Marketing
Sales
Our business graduate program is also available to companies interested in offering career development opportunities to their employees in a flexible, cost-effective manner.
Top Courses for the Leadership in Business Graduate Certificate
Our business management certificate consists of 15 credits of coursework, including 6 credits of core requirements that build critical competencies:
Organizational Behavior
Leadership and Group Performance
In addition, you’ll expand on this foundation by selecting from a range of electives to customize the program to match your career-specific goals:
Business Ethics
Change Management
Decision Making in Organizations
Entrepreneurship
International Business
Legal Environment of Business
Motivation and Work Behavior
Special Topics in Management
Leadership in Business Graduate Certificate Resources
Graduate Certificate Requirements
Graduate Business Programs
School of Business Administration
Programs Related to the Leadership in Business Graduate Certificate
Not sure if the leadership in business graduate certificate is right for you? Check out these other business graduate degree and certificate programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Business Analytics Graduate Certificate
Business Essentials Graduate Certificate
Master of Business Administration
Executive MBA Program
Online Master of Business Administration
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

