URL: https://www.oakland.edu/teach/undergraduate-degree-programs/step/

M.A.T. in Secondary Education - Combined BA to MA Program
The Combined Bachelors to Masters program is designed for individuals who are attending Oakland University to receive their bachelor’s degree in English Language Arts, Integrated Science, Mathematics, or Social Studies and are seeking certification at the middle or high school level. While completing their bachelors degree in content, students apply for delayed admission to the Master of Arts in Teaching degree and take their first 12 graduate credits as undergraduate students. After completing the bachelors degree students complete their masters degree in three semesters of graduate courses and field experiences. During the graduate portion of their degree, classes primarily meet in-person two evenings per week with additional online courses and instruction. Courses are taken as a cohort. At the completion of the student teaching internship, students will be eligible for recommendation for a Michigan standard teaching certificate (grades 5-9, and 7-12). To complete the Master of Arts in Teaching degree, students complete one more class after successfully completing student teaching.
If you already have a bachelor's degree,
learn more about our masters only program
.
Request More Information
Combined BA/MA Info Packet
Eligibility Requirements
In order to be eligible for admission to the Master of Arts in Teaching in Secondary Education (MATSE) combined program, you must first:
Must be seeking their initial secondary teaching certificate
Must have a cumulative GPA of 3.0 or better.
Must be approximately one year before you complete your undergraduate degree, consult your CAS adviser about when to apply
Must be majoring in one of the following majors:
Integrated Science BA
English Language Arts for Educators BA
Social Studies with History for Educators BA
Mathematics for Educators BA
Mathematics for Educators BS
Prospective and Current Student Advising
SEHS Advising Office
(248) 370-4182
[email protected]
Admissions Process
Steps to apply:
Step 1: Meet with your
College of Arts and Sciences adviser
to determine if you are ready to apply.
Step 2: Create an application account at
gradapply.oakland.edu/apply
Step 3: Request a Graduate Application fee waiver
request form
Step 4: Complete the graduate school application -
guidance for applicants and FAQs
Step 5: Admission Decision - After your application is complete (including all course and testing requirements), it can take up to three weeks to hear a decision. To check on the status of your application, you can contact Graduate Admissions at (248) 370-2700 or
Graduate School
.
Field Experiences and Student Teaching
One of the primary benefits of Oakland University's teacher preparation program is field experiences provided in local school districts. Students will have varied experiences working with school-age children and have an opportunity to observe instruction, work with students, and implement lessons prior to the student teaching internship.
Students will complete initial field experiences for the first three semesters with increasing time commitment (30, 50, 90 hours). Fields are generally completed as weekly or semi-weekly half-day visits to a classroom during the specified semester.
The final semester is a 15-week full time internship (called student teaching) in a local classroom and includes all school-related activities.
Field experiences and the student teaching internship are arranged by Oakland University and are requirements from the MDE. Applicants should plan ahead to make accommodations to cover these requirements.
Since most classes are held in the evening, students can generally still work for the first four semesters of the program. Due to the demands of the full time student teaching placement, students are encouraged not to work more than minimal hours.
SL&L Account-
Student Learning & Licensure (SL&L) -
sll.watermarkinsights.com
is an online assessment tool that every candidate of the initial teacher preparation programs in the School of Education and Human Services is required to use. Once you are accepted to the program, you will receive an email that will provide you with information to purchase your account.
Successful scores on the
Michigan Test for Teacher Certification (MTTC)
exams are required before student teaching for teacher certification.
Undergraduate-only STEP
Students starting classes at Oakland University prior to Fall 2023 and studying
biology, chemistry, english, integrated science, history, mathematics, modern languages (Spanish, French, German, or Japanese), physics, and social studies
are invited to apply to the Undergraduate Secondary Teacher Education Program (STEP). STEP will prepare students to teach grades 6-12.
Complete the
STEP Application
to apply (due October 1). As a part of the application you'll need to "make a copy" of the
STEP advising guide
and upload it to the google form.
Learn more about the OU STEP program in the
2022 Academic Catalog
Admission to the Secondary Teacher Education Program is required before taking professional education courses. Factors considered in the applicant selection process include the following:
A cumulative grade-point average (GPA) of 2.80 or higher at Oakland University
Complete SED 3000 or 3001 with a minimum grade of B
Complete WRT 1060 with a minimum grade of B
Minimum average GPA of 3.00 in both CAS major and minor.
Read and sign, acknowledging a duty to uphold the Michigan Code of Educational Ethics
Submission STEP application to the SEHS Advising Office.
Teaching and Learning
Pawley Hall
456 Pioneer Drive
Rochester, MI 48309-4482
(location map)
Phone: (248) 370-2613
[email protected]
Teaching and Learning
Pawley Hall
456 Pioneer Drive
Rochester, MI 48309-4482
(location map)
Phone: (248) 370-2613

