URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/marketing/

Bachelor of Science Degree
Marketing
Oakland University’s marketing degree gives you a strong start on your marketing career.
The best marketing professionals excel at building relationships between organizations and their audiences. Oakland University’s marketing degree stands out for similar reasons. We’ll help you establish connections on campus and in the community to lay a solid foundation for your marketing career. Our marketing degree features small classes that encourage strong relationships with faculty, who routinely act as professional mentors. And the marketing program has extensive community partnerships that yield opportunities for you to gain internship experience, start a professional network, build a work portfolio and the take the first steps in your marketing career. The results say it all: 94 percent of our marketing majors land a marketing job within a year of graduation.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
The best marketing professionals excel at building relationships between organizations and their audiences. Oakland University’s marketing degree stands out for similar reasons. We’ll help you establish connections on campus and in the community to lay a solid foundation for your marketing career. Our marketing degree features small classes that encourage strong relationships with faculty, who routinely act as professional mentors. And the marketing program has extensive community partnerships that yield opportunities for you to gain internship experience, start a professional network, build a work portfolio and the take the first steps in your marketing career. The results say it all: 94 percent of our marketing majors land a marketing job within a year of graduation.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Marketing Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
Earning your marketing degree in Southeast Michigan can give you a significant edge in the job market. The region boasts a thriving economy with a wide range of employers, from dominant global brands to fast-rising newcomers, government agencies, worldwide nonprofits and more. These organizations have hundreds of marketing jobs to fill—and they actively recruit marketing majors from Oakland University.
Our marketing degree offers career-building benefits such as:
Hands-on experience.
You won’t have to wait until your first marketing job to start doing meaningful work. We actively collaborate with public, private and nonprofit organizations of every type, enabling you to get a head start on your marketing career via internships, case studies, research and other special projects.
Personalized attention.
Our marketing program features small classes, so you’ll get plenty of faculty face time and one-on-one guidance. Almost all of our marketing classes are taught by senior instructors, not adjuncts or graduate students.
Exceptional faculty.
You’ll learn from marketing industry experts who don’t simply teach from the textbook. Our faculty combine academic expertise with practical knowledge about what it takes to build a successful marketing career. They serve not only as educators but also as professional coaches and mentors.
Adaptable skills.
Our marketing program equips you with flexible skills that won’t go obsolete as new marketing trends and technologies emerge. You’ll develop proficiency in writing, research, collaboration, critical reasoning and conceptual thinking. In addition, you’ll cultivate a professional attitude and air of maturity that make a strong impression in the job market and in the workplace.
Academic excellence.
We’ve been ranked among the nation’s top business schools by
US News & World Report
, Princeton Review,
CEO Magazine,
and various other publications. Our reputation is affirmed by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), which has granted Oakland University elite dual accreditation (in business and accounting) that puts us in the top 1 percent of the world’s business schools.
What can you do with a marketing degree?
Marketing Careers
Although marketing is closely associated with the advertising industry, marketing career opportunities are much broader than that. Our marketing degree prepares you for marketing jobs in consumer research, product development, international business, e-commerce and many other areas.
A marketing degree can position you to rise into leadership positions over time. Some common starting points for marketing careers include:
Advertising campaign manager
Sales director
Brand manager
Product development and testing specialist
Account manager
Media buyer
Market research analyst
Distribution channel manager
Social media strategist
Outreach coordinator
Entrepreneur
Marketing Degree: What You’ll Study
Our marketing degree provides comprehensive knowledge about marketing concepts and practices. The marketing major consists of four core courses, with electives that enable you to develop specialized expertise in an area of interest to you.
Depending on the marketing courses you choose, you’ll study subject matter such as:
Advertising
Sales promotion
Marketing research
Consumer behavior
Strategic marketing
Pricing
Business to Business (B2B) marketing
Product innovation
Distribution channels
Retailing
Marketing communications
Marketing for nonprofits
Current Marketing Internships
(#R67637) Deli Merchandising Intern at SpartanNash
Events and Marketing Intern at Subscription Trade Association
Content Creation Intern - Winter 2025 at Rocket Companies
Communications Intern - Harrisburg, PA at CRH
Marketing Intern at Cherry Republic
Marketing Intern at LUDWIG+
Communications & External Affairs Undergraduate Summer Intern at The Kresge Foundation
Program and Event Intern at Michigan Library Association
USGA P.J. Boatwright Jr. Digital Communications Internship at Golf Association of Michigan
Paid Marketing Intern at DiaMedical USA
Communications and Marketing - Agricultural Insurance Intern at Michigan Farm Bureau Family of Companies
Marketing/Communications Intern at Gentherm
Marketing Intern at Big Boy Restaurants
Internship Corporate Events HYBRID in Lansing MI at Emergent Holdings
Direct Mail & Digital Marketing Intern - Summer 2025 at AAA Life Insurance
Hospitality Intern at Village Suites Bay Harbor
Summer Data Integrity Intern at EJ
User Research/Human Factors Analyst Internship at Yanfeng
Marketing Intern at Center Lake Bible Camp
Public Relations / Journalism Intern at Oakland University William Beaumont School of Medicine  at Oakland University
Digital Marketing Intern at Strategic Investment Advisors
Great Lakes Ag Labor Services Intern at Michigan Farm Bureau Family of Companies
Marketing Intern at Niles Industrial Coatings
Summer Internship Program at UWM (United Wholesale Mortgage)
Sales and Marketing Intern at The Shyft Group
Business Development at Top Rated Online
Marketing Intern at Energy Design Engineers
Marketing Co-op at Musashi Auto Parts
Local Marketing Coordinator at Breadless
WMEAC Wolverine CAG Communications Internship at West Michigan Environmental Action Council
Climate Actions Communications Internship at West Michigan Environmental Action Council
+ Show More
- Show Less
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

