URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/gradaute-certificate-marketing/

Graduate Certificate
Marketing
Elevate your career and successfully position your products and brand with a Graduate Certificate in Marketing from Oakland University.
Master essential skills in designing, implementing and improving marketing strategies with Oakland University’s graduate marketing certification program. In as little as eight months, you can take your marketing skills to new heights and bring more efficient and productive marketing techniques to your organization.
By providing evening courses, we’ve designed our graduate certificate program to be accessible for working professionals with either a bachelor’s or graduate degree in business who want to advance their career without sacrificing time at work. Whether you already work in marketing or are looking to transition into the field, our Graduate Certificate in Marketing will give you a solid foundation to build a rewarding career in marketing or related fields.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Master essential skills in designing, implementing and improving marketing strategies with Oakland University’s graduate marketing certification program. In as little as eight months, you can take your marketing skills to new heights and bring more efficient and productive marketing techniques to your organization.
By providing evening courses, we’ve designed our graduate certificate program to be accessible for working professionals with either a bachelor’s or graduate degree in business who want to advance their career without sacrificing time at work. Whether you already work in marketing or are looking to transition into the field, our Graduate Certificate in Marketing will give you a solid foundation to build a rewarding career in marketing or related fields.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Marketing Graduate Certificate: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland University’s Graduate Certificate in Marketing provides in-demand skills through expert guidance and engaging courses to prepare you for professional success. Our graduate students are ready to address complex business challenges through innovative and creative thinking.
Here are just some of the benefits to joining our marketing certification program:
Excellent location:
The Southeast Michigan region is home to a thriving economy with many opportunities to work with global brands, fast-rising start-ups, government agencies and nonprofits.
Experienced faculty:
Thanks to our dedication to personalized educational experiences, you can enjoy working closely with faculty mentors and industry professionals who prioritize your academic and professional success.
An accredited marketing graduate certificate:
Our graduate certificate program is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business. This means that graduate students from our marketing certification program are recognized across the region and country for reaching the highest standards for academic excellence.
A graduate certificate that paves the way to a graduate degree:
The credits you earn as you complete your marketing graduate certificate can be applied to an Oakland University Master of Business Administration. This can save you time and money while expanding your career potential even further.
What Can You Do With a Marketing Graduate Certificate?
Earning a graduate certificate is one of the easiest and most efficient ways to learn the latest marketing strategies and understand how to apply them to your current or future organization. Whether you are a working professional or are just starting out in your business career, holding a marketing graduate certificate will help you to stand apart from your peers and other job candidates.
Some of the careers and positions you could pursue when you earn a Graduate Certificate in Marketing from Oakland University include:
Content strategist
Entrepreneur
Events manager
Marketing assistant
Marketing executive
Marketing research analyst
Media planner
Social media manager
Supply chain manager
Top Courses for Marketing Certificate Students
Our marketing certification program offers courses for graduate students with all levels of knowledge in marketing and business — from seasoned executives to new business professionals. Applicants to our Graduate Certificate in Marketing program must hold at least a bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution and submit a resume or curriculum vitae.
Through an expertly crafted combination of seminars and independent study courses, we help our graduate students become well-rounded professionals with knowledge and skills in multiple business fields and specialties. New graduate students in the marketing certification program work with an assigned faculty adviser to develop a plan of study to ensure that they study the topics that are most relevant to them and graduate as soon as possible.
When you join our Graduate Certificate in Marketing program, you can take a diverse range of courses, including:
Consumer Behavior
Customer and Supplier Relations in the Global Enterprise
Entrepreneurial Marketing
Marketing & Sustainability Management
Marketing Management
Marketing Research
Strategic Marketing
Marketing Graduate Certificate Program Resources
Graduate Certificate Requirements
School of Business Administration
Programs Related to the Marketing Certification Program
Not sure if the Graduate Certificate in Marketing is right for you? Check out these other graduate certificate programs at Oakland, and contact our
admissions team
to discuss your options:
Leadership in Business Graduate Certificate
Business Analytics Graduate Certificate
Business Essentials
Finance
Fintech Graduate Certificate
HR Management
Information Security
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

