URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/computer-science-mscs/

MSCS degree
Master of Science in Computer Science
In our MSCS program, you’ll build the expertise and connections you need to reach the next level.
Oakland University’s master’s degree in computer science offers professional growth opportunities that prepare you for advanced roles in computer science. Whether you seek a career in corporate leadership, academia, or government, our MSCS degree equips you with deep computer science expertise that’s in extremely high demand. Our proximity to global industrial leaders makes Oakland University’s MSCS degree especially robust. You’ll enjoy opportunities to partner with computer scientists who are expanding technology’s boundaries, earning your MSCS in a community of computer science innovators and high-level problem-solvers. It’s no wonder graduates of our MSCS program have such an excellent record of professional achievement.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University’s master’s degree in computer science offers professional growth opportunities that prepare you for advanced roles in computer science. Whether you seek a career in corporate leadership, academia, or government, our MSCS degree equips you with deep computer science expertise that’s in extremely high demand. Our proximity to global industrial leaders makes Oakland University’s MSCS degree especially robust. You’ll enjoy opportunities to partner with computer scientists who are expanding technology’s boundaries, earning your MSCS in a community of computer science innovators and high-level problem-solvers. It’s no wonder graduates of our MSCS program have such an excellent record of professional achievement.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Master of Computer Science: The Oakland University Advantage
With its dynamic economy and cluster of industrial leaders, Southeast Michigan is an ideal place to earn an MSCS degree. Oakland University’s corporate partners support our MSCS program through research collaborations, internship opportunities, professional mentoring, job recruiting, and more.
Other advantages of our MSCS program include:
Innovative research.
Our MSCS faculty and students are investigating cutting-edge computer science applications related to autonomous vehicles, wireless technology, bioinformatics, medical devices, and other industries.
Exceptional faculty.
You’ll work with renowned computer science authorities who combine academic and research achievements with deep professional experience and training. Our MSCS faculty publish and present widely, while consulting for corporations all over the world.
Professional connections.
Oakland University’s MSCS program provides you with extensive opportunities to build relationships with computer science leaders, on campus and off. From research partnerships to internships, industry conferences, and real-world case studies, you’ll have routine opportunities to expand your professional network.
State-of-the-art labs.
You’ll earn your master’s in computer science in the sparkling new Engineering Center, which opened in 2014. This 127,000-square-foot building features well-equipped facilities that include the most up-to-date hardware, software, and networking capabilities.
Inclusive program.
Students from around the world enroll in Oakland University’s MSCS program. In addition, our master’s in computer science also attracts an above-average percentage of women. Most of our MSCS faculty come from outside the United States.
What can you do with a MSCS degree?
Computer Science Careers
Graduates of our computer science master’s degree program have an excellent record of professional achievement. U.S. industry is growing ever-more reliant on digital technology, so the demand for master’s-level computer science experts will continue to grow.
Many of our MSCS graduates continue to Ph.D. programs in preparation for academic careers. Those who choose professional computer science careers find employment in many areas, including:
Senior product development
Project management
Data science
Software design and architecture
Web development
Systems integration
Master of Computer Science: What You’ll Study
Our MSCS degree offers two tracks. The research track of the MSCS requires a thesis based on independent research, while the professional MSCS track requires a concentration in networking, software, IT, AI, or another computer science specialty.
Core coursework addresses advanced subject areas such as:
Software modeling
Object-oriented analysis
Software engineering
Operating systems
Database systems
Algorithms
Programming languages
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

