URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/bachelor-science-mathematics-educators/

Bachelor of Science
Mathematics for Educators
Inspire the next generation of critical thinkers and problem-solvers when you earn a Bachelor of Science in Mathematics for Educators.
Math isn’t just about numbers — it’s a powerful tool that trains the brain to think critically, solve puzzles and understand the world in a whole new way. Math education empowers students to tackle real-world challenges and become the innovative leaders of tomorrow.
You can serve as the architect of future critical thinkers when you earn a Bachelor of Science in Mathematics for Educators from Oakland University. We’ve designed our mathematics curriculum to cover a broad range of fundamental math subjects like calculus, algebra, applied probability and statistics. This rigorous and relevant mathematics curriculum prepares you to pursue state teacher certification at the 5–9 and 7–12 grade levels.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Math isn’t just about numbers — it’s a powerful tool that trains the brain to think critically, solve puzzles and understand the world in a whole new way. Math education empowers students to tackle real-world challenges and become the innovative leaders of tomorrow.
You can serve as the architect of future critical thinkers when you earn a Bachelor of Science in Mathematics for Educators from Oakland University. We’ve designed our mathematics curriculum to cover a broad range of fundamental math subjects like calculus, algebra, applied probability and statistics. This rigorous and relevant mathematics curriculum prepares you to pursue state teacher certification at the 5–9 and 7–12 grade levels.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Math Teacher Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
OU’s Bachelor of Science in Mathematics for Educators combines a deep understanding of mathematical concepts with the practical skills you need to ignite young minds.
Our mathematics for educators program offers:
Supportive faculty mentors:
As you earn your math education degree at OU, you’ll meet and work alongside nationally and internationally renowned
faculty scholars and educators
. You’ll benefit from their knowledge and expertise and work together to shape tomorrow’s problem-solvers and critical thinkers.
Opportunities for undergraduate research:
You don’t have to wait until graduate school to pursue math education research. At Oakland, our students conduct research as early as freshman year.
Research areas
include algebra, analysis, combinatorics and optimization, mathematical biology, number theory and statistics.
Seamless transition to a teaching master’s program: If you’re interested in taking your Bachelor of Science in Mathematics for Educators to the next level, we offer a combined B.S./MAT program that allows you to apply for and receive delayed admission into OU’s
MAT program
.
Generous financial aid and scholarships: When you work toward a mathematics for educators degree, you become eligible for more than 250 OU
grants and scholarships
, making your math teacher degree more accessible. You may also qualify for special
mathematics scholarships and awards
.
What Can You Do With a Math Teacher Degree?
Ready to ignite passion for problem-solving and critical thinking in students? When you earn a Bachelor of Science in Mathematics for Educators, you’ll go beyond the textbook and use math to help students unlock the world around them.
When you earn a math teacher degree from OU, you can pursue teacher certification in Michigan to teach students at the middle or high school level. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, middle and high school teachers earn an average annual salary of about $62,000. In addition to this salary, you’ll spark imagination and possibility when you teach others how to see the world through the lens of math.
Some of the careers you could pursue with a Bachelor of Science in Mathematics for educators from OU include:
middle school teacher
high school teacher
math tutor
curriculum coordinator
Top Courses for OU’s Math Teacher Degree
Gain a better understanding of today’s mathematics curriculum to help propel your career in education. Courses like Object-Oriented Computing and Advanced Mathematical Thinking will teach you how to transform your students’ thinking skills.
Other courses you can enjoy as you earn your Bachelor of Science in Mathematics for Educators include:
Abstract Algebra
Applied Probability and Statistics
Discrete Mathematics
Elementary Models in Operations Research
Geometric Structures
History of Mathematics
Linear Algebra
Multivariable Calculus
You’ll also take one required education course, which will provide career information, professional pathways for teachers, diversity in education and an examination of the teaching profession.
Mathematics for Educators Program Resources
Major Requirements
Department of Mathematics and Statistics
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Math Teacher Degree
Not sure if the Bachelor of Science in Mathematics for Educators is right for you? Check out these other undergraduate degree programs at Oakland and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Bachelor of Science in Mathematics
Bachelor of Science in Applied Statistics
Secondary Teacher Education Program (STEP)
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

