URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/mechatronic-systems-engineering/

Master of Science
Mechatronics and Robotics Engineering
Our master’s degree in mechatronics equips you to develop the next generation of technology.
The Master of Science in Mechatronics and Robotics Engineering equips you with specialized skills that are in growing demand. Oakland University’s mechatronics master’s degree puts you at the forefront of this interdisciplinary field, which demands proficiency in mechanical, electrical and computer engineering. You’ll get an applied education in mechatronics, working with faculty experts on campus and engineering pros in Southeast Michigan’s industrial complex. Evening classes enable you to work full-time while you earn the mechatronics degree. You’ll graduate with first-rate training and outstanding qualifications for a career in mechatronics engineering.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
The Master of Science in Mechatronics and Robotics Engineering equips you with specialized skills that are in growing demand. Oakland University’s mechatronics master’s degree puts you at the forefront of this interdisciplinary field, which demands proficiency in mechanical, electrical and computer engineering. You’ll get an applied education in mechatronics, working with faculty experts on campus and engineering pros in Southeast Michigan’s industrial complex. Evening classes enable you to work full-time while you earn the mechatronics degree. You’ll graduate with first-rate training and outstanding qualifications for a career in mechatronics engineering.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Master’s Degree in Mechatronics: The Oakland University Advantage
Because we’re located in Southeast Michigan, Oakland University’s mechatronics program offers unique access to industry leaders, on campus and off. You’ll have opportunities to learn from and build relationships with mechatronics pioneers in autonomous vehicles, robotics, manufacturing, biomedical technology and other sectors. Few programs nationwide provide comparable connections to the people and organizations who are driving innovation in mechatronics technology.
Other key benefits of our
mechatronics master’s degree
include:
Practical, hands-on training.
You’ll acquire marketable skills and address real-world challenges in automotive
mechatronics
, robotics, control systems, embedded systems and other
mechatronics
subdisciplines. The combination of academic instruction and first-hand experience helps you stand out in the job market and contribute immediately in the workplace.
Cutting-edge facilities.
Oakland’s School of Engineering and Computer Science maintains more than a dozen world-class labs where you can work with the same tools and technologies you’ll use in your
mechatronics career.
The Automotive
Mechatronics
Laboratory, Center for Robotics and Advanced Automation, Intelligent Ground Vehicle Laboratory and OU/Chrysler Controls and Robotics Laboratory are of particular interest to
mechatronics
graduate students.
Superior faculty.
You’ll learn from active researchers and industry veterans who are developing new uses and capacities for
mechatronics
technology. Oakland’s
mechatronics
faculty include high-profile investigators in guidance systems, power-train control, vehicle dynamics and kinematics, signal conditioning, embedded control and other emerging areas of mechatronics.
Tight-knit community.
With small classes and attentive professors, our
mechatronics program
promotes strong one-on-one relationships between students and faculty. We have a collaborative environment in which students offer mutual support and contribute to each other’s success.
Flexibility and convenience.
We designed our
mechatronics degree
for working professionals who need to balance graduate school with job responsibilities. Courses are scheduled for evenings and Saturdays, with online options in some cases.
What Can You Do With a Mechatronics Master’s Degree?
Mechatronics engineering jobs
are concentrated in fast-growing industries such as robotics, autonomous vehicles, and health care technology. At the same time, applications for
mechatronics
technology are expanding rapidly in both industrial goods and consumer products.
These trends point to a positive outlook for
careers in mechatronics engineering
. A master’s
degree in mechatronics
qualifies you for jobs in growing sectors such as:
Artificial intelligence
Machine learning
Computer vision
Automated manufacturing
Self-driving vehicles
Consumer electronics
Machine tools
Defense technology
Aerospace
Biomedical technology
Master’s Degree in Mechatronics: What You’ll Learn
Oakland University’s
mechatronics master’s degree
requires 32 credits, beginning with required courses in instrumentation and automotive
mechatronics
. You’ll also take electives in at least two engineering disciplines (computer engineering, electrical engineering, mechanical engineering and systems / control engineering), with the option to complete a master’s thesis based on original research.
While elective course selection is very broad, our
mechatronics
curriculum is particularly strong in:
Automotive
mechatronics
Embedded systems
Artificial intelligence
Machine learning
Robotics
MEMS (microelectromechanical systems)
Mechanical design
Master’s Degree in Mechatronics Program Resources
Program Requirements
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
School of Engineering and Computer Science
Programs Related to the Master’s Degree in Mechatronics
Not sure if the mechatronics degree is right for you ? Check out these other graduate programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Master of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering
Master of Science in Embedded Systems
Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

