URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/medical-laboratory-science/

Bachelor of Science in Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences
Medical Laboratory Science Specialization
This career-focused degree equips you with the skills, experience, and academic foundation to become a medical laboratory scientist.
If you seek targeted preparation for a medical laboratory sciences career, you can’t find a better program than Oakland University’s Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences degree with specialization in Medical Laboratory Science. Our medical laboratory science degree is specifically designed to help you gain professional certification as a medical laboratory scientist. You’ll get classroom instruction, hands-on training, and internship experience that equip you for a medical laboratory science career. The profession is growing, and medical lab science salaries are among the best you can get with a bachelor’s degree. Our degree in medical laboratory science prepares you to pass the certification exam and compete for the best medical laboratory science jobs.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
If you seek targeted preparation for a medical laboratory sciences career, you can’t find a better program than Oakland University’s Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences degree with specialization in Medical Laboratory Science. Our medical laboratory science degree is specifically designed to help you gain professional certification as a medical laboratory scientist. You’ll get classroom instruction, hands-on training, and internship experience that equip you for a medical laboratory science career. The profession is growing, and medical lab science salaries are among the best you can get with a bachelor’s degree. Our degree in medical laboratory science prepares you to pass the certification exam and compete for the best medical laboratory science jobs.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Medical Laboratory Science Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland’s medical laboratory science program combines an in-depth focus on cellular biology with clinical-based courses and extensive hands-on laboratory experience. You’ll get thorough preparation that emphasizes the skills you need to stand out in the medical laboratory science job market.
Choose Oakland University if you’re looking for:
Extensive lab experience.
You’ll work in state-of-the-art facilities and master skills that employers seek in new hires. Our medical laboratory science degree provides hands-on training in the skills, technologies, and lab practices that help you stand out in the medical laboratory science job market.
Strong faculty guidance.
Our student-centered medical laboratory science program features small classes, ensuring that you receive lots of one-on-one attention from your professors.
Career-building opportunities.
You’ll develop professional relationships that equip you with the skills, knowledge, and confidence you need to succeed in clinical internships after graduation.
Expert professors.
Courses are taught by certified medical laboratory scientists who are active in the profession. You’ll learn from highly accomplished, well-respected practitioners who offer career and professional guidance.
Complete, well-rounded skills.
Our medical laboratory science degree covers all aspects of the discipline. You’ll build a solid foundation in clinical chemistry, microbiology, molecular diagnostics, hematology, genetic analysis, and other essential fields of knowledge.
What Can You Do With a Degree in Medical Laboratory Science?
A degree in medical laboratory science equips you with workforce skills that are in very high demand. The U.S. health care system is facing a shortage of laboratory professionals, creating an abundance of vacant jobs in medical laboratory science. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics projects 7% growth in the profession by 2029, so the degree in medical laboratory science provides you with excellent job security.
A sampling of jobs in medical laboratory science includes:
Medical laboratory scientist
Medical laboratory management
Medical laboratory equipment sales
Pharmaceutical representative
Clinical educator
Genetic technologist
Forensic laboratory scientist
Research technologist
Medical product testing scientist
Top Courses for the Degree in Medical Laboratory Science
The degree in medical laboratory science begins with core curriculum in clinical and diagnostic sciences, including courses in biology, anatomy, physiology, health care ethics, statistics, and laboratory theory. The medical laboratory science specialization consists of 66 credits, including courses and/or labs in:
Biology
Chemistry
Organic chemistry
Physics
Clinical chemistry
Clinical microbiology
Medical genetics
Molecular diagnostics
Hematology
Immunology
Immunohematology
Medical biochemistry
Parasitology, mycology, and virology
If you seek to obtain national certification as a medical laboratory scientist, you’ll also complete a clinical internship after completing the degree in medical laboratory science. Internships last from six to 10 months. Oakland University’s degree in medical laboratory science is affiliated with three accredited internship programs; admission is competitive.
Degree in Medical Laboratory Science Resources
Major requirements
Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences Departmental page
School of Health Sciences
Programs Related to the Degree in Medical Laboratory Science
Not sure if the bachelor’s degree in medical laboratory science is right for you? Check out these other undergraduate degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Bachelor of Science in Clinical Diagnostic Science / Specialization in Histotechnology
Bachelor of Science in Clinical Diagnostic Science / Specialization in Nuclear Medicine
Bachelor of Science in Clinical Diagnostic Science / Specialization in Pre-Pharmacy Sciences
Bachelor of Science in Clinical Diagnostic Science / Specialization in Radiologic Technology
Bachelor of Science in Clinical Diagnostic Science / Specialization in Pre-Physician Assistant
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

