URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/medical-physics/

Bachelor of Science
Medical Physics
Our medical physics degree equips you to create the health care technologies of the future.
Medical physics (also known as biophysics) sits at the intersection of biology and technology. Oakland University conducts ground-breaking research in both disciplines, so our undergraduate medical physics degree puts you years ahead of the curve. You’ll learn from nationally renowned medical physics experts who are developing next-generation technologies, while getting hands-on experience in Oakland University’s state-of-the-art biomedical research, robotics, and manufacturing labs. Our medical physics program also offers unique internship opportunities with industry leaders in medical device design and development. Whether you’re interested in medical school, a graduate biophysics degree, or a career in biotechnology, our medical physics program gives you outstanding preparation to take the next step.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Medical physics (also known as biophysics) sits at the intersection of biology and technology. Oakland University conducts ground-breaking research in both disciplines, so our undergraduate medical physics degree puts you years ahead of the curve. You’ll learn from nationally renowned medical physics experts who are developing next-generation technologies, while getting hands-on experience in Oakland University’s state-of-the-art biomedical research, robotics, and manufacturing labs. Our medical physics program also offers unique internship opportunities with industry leaders in medical device design and development. Whether you’re interested in medical school, a graduate biophysics degree, or a career in biotechnology, our medical physics program gives you outstanding preparation to take the next step.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Medical Physics Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
Most universities only offer medical physics degrees at the master’s or doctoral level, which might explain why our bachelor of medical physics feels so much like a graduate program. You’ll work in the same labs as our medical physics Ph.D. candidates, collaborate with the same faculty, and build professional connections with the same industry partners.
You’ll also benefit from our medical physics program’s:
Pioneering research.
Undergraduates routinely get involved in high-level medical physics research at Oakland University, acquiring experience and skills that stand out on resumes and grad school applications. Funded by organizations such as the National Institutes of Health and National Science Foundation, our medical physics researchers are developing next-generation technologies to treat heart disease, cancer, strokes, and other diseases.
First-rate infrastructure.
The medical physics program builds on Oakland University’s strengths in associated fields such as medicine, bioengineering, and applied technology. We operate world-class manufacturing and prototyping labs with advanced capabilities, as well as a biomedical research center and other state-of-the-art facilities. Our medical physics program even has access to an entire medical school and faculty, headquartered just a few steps away from our science center.
Real-world opportunities.
We have partnerships throughout Southeast Michigan’s vibrant industrial community, including ongoing collaborations in the medical device and health care sectors. These relationships enable our medical physics students to acquire valuable internship experience and build professional connections.
Exceptional faculty.
Our medical physics professors are directly engaged in undergraduate education. You’ll take courses with seasoned faculty, not junior instructors, building relationships with some of the world’s foremost experts in medical physics. Their mentorship and guidance can pay big dividends for your career.
Preparation for medical school and graduate programs.
Graduates of our medical physics program are excellent candidates for admission to medical school and graduate programs in medical physics, biophysics, bioengineering, and related disciplines. The combination of academic rigor and co-curricular activities provide you with a strong foundation for the next level in your education.
What can you do with a medical physics degree?
Medical Physics Careers
Medical physics is a growth industry with high career potential. Roles and opportunities are still being defined, so individuals entering the profession now have a chance to evolve with the industry and influence its direction.
While some medical physics careers require an advanced degree, a bachelor’s degree in medical physics qualifies you for many types of jobs. You’ll find opportunities in fields such as:
Medical device manufacturing
Biomedical engineering
Medical research
Medicine
Product development
Medical Physics Degree: What You’ll Study
The medical physics degree has a rigorous academic core that includes coursework in physics, mathematics, chemistry, and biology. You’ll cover a broad range of subjects that includes:
General physics
Nuclear physics
Biological physics
Medical physics
Theoretical physics
Electricity and magnetism
Calculus
Probability and statistics
Differential equations
General chemistry
Biology
Anatomy
Physiology
The program culminates in a capstone project that consists of research or independent study.
Bachelor’s Degree in Medical Physics
Resources
Major Requirements
Department of Physics
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Bachelor of Science in Medical Physics
Not sure if the
medical physics degree
is right for you? Check out these other undergraduate degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Bachelor of Science in Physics
Bachelor of Science in Medical Physics
Bachelor of Science in Engineering Physics
Current Medical Physics Internships
Building Technologies Office Fellowship: Commercial Buildings Integration at Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education
(#JR-2403484) Technology Development Process Integration Intern (Summer 2025) at GlobalFoundries
(#JR-2403091) End Markets Intern, Smart Mobile Devices (Summer 2025) at GlobalFoundries
(#JR-2403107) Device Modeling Intern, Silicon Photonics (Summer 2025) at GlobalFoundries
Systems Engineer Intern at KLA Corporation
UT-ORII SMaRT Internship 2025 at Oak Ridge Associated Universities (ORAU)
MSTP Undergraduate Research Program - Summer 2025 at Indiana University School of Medicine Medical Scientist Training Program (MSTP)
Marine Energy Fellowship: Graduate Student Track at Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education
Marine Energy Fellowship: Post-Graduate Track at Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education
2025 Summer Associate Program at Institute for Defense Analyses
+ Show More
- Show Less
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

