URL: https://catalog.oakland.edu/preview_program.php?catoid=61&poid=11691&returnto=12919

Dec 18, 2024
2023-2024 Graduate Catalog
Select a Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog
2024-2025 Graduate Catalog
2023-2024 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog
2023-2024 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2023 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2021 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2019 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Professional and Continuing Education Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2017 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-2014 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-2014 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2011-2012 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2011-2012 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2010-2011 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-21 Syllabus [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-19 Syllabus [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-18 Syllabus [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-20 Syllabus [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Colleges and Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Addendum to the 2021- 2023 Graduate Catalog
Online Catalog User Guide
Archived catalogs
Degree Programs and Graduate Certificates
Online Programs
Combined Bachelor/Graduate Degree Programs
Graduate Admission Requirements
Admission terms and application deadlines
Graduate Course Descriptions
Oakland University
University Information
Graduate School at Oakland University
Academic Departments
College of Arts and Sciences
School of Music, Theatre and Dance
School of Business Administration
School of Education and Human Services
School of Engineering and Computer Science
School of Health Sciences
School of Nursing
University Libraries
Oakland University William Beaumont School of Medicine
Graduate/University Policies
Graduate Academic Advising
Student Responsibility
Student Code Of Conduct
Office of Research Administration
Office of the Registrar
Student Financial Services
International Students and Scholars
Student Services and Centers
Calendars and Deadlines
Graduate Assistantships, Scholarships and Fellowships
Graduation and Commencement
Doctoral Dissertations and Abstracts Archive
Campus Map
My Portfolio
HELP
2023-2024 Graduate Catalog
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Music Education, Doctor of Philosophy - Admissions Temporarily Suspended
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
Return to:
Degree Programs and Graduate Certificates
School of Music, Theatre and Dance
207 Varner Hall
(map)
(248) 370-2030 • Fax (248) 370-2041
www.oakland.edu/mtd
Coordinator:
Jeffrey Heisler
317 Varner Hall
(248) 370-2871
jaheisle@oakland.edu
►
Apply Online
►
Class Schedule Search
►
Graduate Catalog Addendum
Program description
The Doctor of Philosophy in music education degree program is designed to develop individuals who can provide leadership for music education practice as teacher educators, curriculum leaders, and researchers.
Core concepts in the program include constructivism, cultural psychology, social democracy in music learning and teaching, qualitative research, history of music education and current trends.
Admission terms and application deadlines
Before an applicant’s file can be reviewed for full program admission, all application documents must be received in Graduate Admissions by the semester deadlines listed below.
Current Deadlines
February 1 for fall and summer semesters
February 25 interview deadline for applicants who qualify for an admission interview
International applicants
Application requirements
To be considered for graduate admission, applicants must submit all Graduate Application Requirements
and
additional department requirements by the published application deadlines:
Graduate Application Requirements
Additional department application requirements
Applicants must have earned a baccalaureate and master’s degree in music (preferably music education) from a regionally-accredited institution or proof of a U.S. equivalent degree for foreign educated applicants.
Teaching experience relevant to the applicant’s intended area of study
Written statement of professional goals
Additional Recommendation for Graduate Admission form
In addition to the two recommendations listed above, a third recommendation is required by the program.
Requirements for recommendations
All three forms must be from an academic instructor or from an employment supervisor.
Writing Sample: Applicants will provide evidence of their prior knowledge and understanding of music and music education by submitting a paper written in a scholarly fashion on any educational topic.
Applicants who qualify as a result of this screening process must complete their scheduled interview with the music education faculty prior to the published deadline.
Admission review and assessment
Admission to graduate school at Oakland University is selective. In making admission recommendations to the Doctor of Philosophy in music education program, the department evaluates admission candidates as musicians, scholars and practitioners through assessment of prior coursework at the undergraduate and graduate levels, professional experience, written statement of goals, professional letters of recommendation, interview and any other admission requirement established by the academic program.
Degree requirements
The Doctor of Philosophy in music education degree is awarded upon satisfactory completion of a minimum of 58 credits in an approved program of study, successful admission to candidacy, successful defense of the dissertation and final approval and submission of the dissertation. This program of study was approved in 2018 effective 2019-2021 Graduate Catalog.
Course requirements
a. Core requirements (24 credits)
MUS 7731 - Philosophical Foundations of Music Education
(4 credits)
MUS 7732 - Psychological Foundations of Music Education
(4 credits)
MUS 7740 - Research Methods in Music Education
(4 credits)
MUS 8960 - Research Mentorship I
(4 credits)
MUS 8961 - Research Mentorship II
(4 credits)
MUS 9900 - Dissertation Proposal
(4 credits)
b. Approved electives (minimum of 18 credits)
MUS 8911 - Readings in Music Education Specialization
(4 credits)
(may be taken 2+2)
MUS 8912 - Readings in Music Education Methodology
(2 credits)
MUS 8913 - Readings in Music Education Psychology
(2 credits)
MUS 8914 - Readings in Music Education Philosophy
(2 credits)
Electives chosen in consultation with the adviser and/or chair of the dissertation committee (8 credits).
c. Dissertation (16 credits)
MUS 9999 - Dissertation Research
(1 to 12 credits)
Satisfactory academic progress
Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) is the term used to denote a student’s successful completion of coursework toward a certificate or degree. Federal regulations require the Office of Financial Aid to monitor Satisfactory Academic Progress for all financial aid recipients each semester.
Students who fall behind in their coursework, or fail to achieve minimum standards for grade point average and completion of classes, may lose their eligibility for all types of federal, state and university aid. Contact the
Office of Financial Aid
for additional details.
Good academic standing
All graduate students are expected to remain in
good academic standing
throughout
the entire course of their graduate program. To be in good academic standing, a graduate student must make satisfactory progress toward fulfilling degree requirements, including the completion of critical degree milestones as set forth by the academic program. The student must also maintain a minimum semester and overall GPA of 3.0. Minimum grade for SAP for each course is B (3.0). Students who receive a B- or below in any course will be placed on academic probation. Students who receive a B- or below in 2 or more courses will be dismissed from the program. No grades below a C will count toward the degree and will need to be retaken.
Unresolved P grades are also grounds for academic probation and/or dismissal from the program.
Good academic standing is a requirement for:
Holding a Graduate Assistantship
Receiving a fellowship or scholarship
Advancing to candidacy for a graduate degree
Going on a leave of absence
Obtaining a graduate certificate or degree from Oakland University.
Additionally, graduate students must meet all department academic standards which may be more stringent than the minimum set forth by the University.
Graduate students who are not in good academic standing for any reason are subject to probation and/or dismissal from further graduate study.
Related program information
Qualifying examination and dissertation committees
The qualifying examination and dissertation committees are made up of a minimum of three members. These faculty must be tenure-track faculty at Oakland University, and at least two members must be from the Department of Music. In addition, the student may choose to add a fourth member to the dissertation committee. This additional member can be another faculty member from the School of Music, Theatre and Dance or other department in the College of Arts and Sciences; a faculty member from the School of Education and Human Services; or a faculty member from another institution, provided this person is approved by the Oakland University members of the dissertation committee.
The dissertation chair oversees the student’s candidacy, assists the student in developing the dissertation proposal, guides the student’s research, and certifies to Oakland University Graduate School that all degree requirements have been fulfilled.
All core coursework and admission to candidacy must be completed, with no outstanding (P) or (I) grades, before students may register for credit in Dissertation Research (
MUS 9999
) using their dissertation chair as instructor of record. Students advanced to candidacy must be continuously enrolled in Dissertation Research (MUS 9999) each semester in the academic year, including the semester of the dissertation defense. To satisfy degree requirements, students must have completed a minimum of 16 credits of MUS 9999 by the end of the semester in which their dissertation is registered and defended.
Qualifying examination
Upon completion of all required coursework (after
MUS 8961
and before
MUS 9900
), the student must pass a qualifying examination in the fields of music education philosophy, psychology, research, and practice. Failure to pass the examination within two attempts shall constitute failure and dismissal from the Ph.D. program.
The qualifying examination provides an opportunity for the student to demonstrate achievement of a level and quality of knowledge and skill sufficient to be considered a Doctor of Philosophy in music education. It also provides an opportunity for the student to demonstrate preparedness and readiness to engage in the dissertation study.
The examination will consist of three questions, generally one dealing with philosophical, psychological, and sociocultural foundations of music education; a second dealing with literature related to the candidate’s interest area within the field; and a third with research methodology.
Students must complete all core courses before officially initiating the examination process. Once initiated, students have one calendar year to complete their responses. Non-core coursework may continue during the period of examination, but should be substantially completed. To initiate the process, the student invites faculty members to serve on his or her Qualifying Examination Committee. The committee then writes three questions.
Dissertation
An integral and major component of the program is the successful completion of original research to study a problem of current interest in the field. Each student shall, in consultation with his or her adviser, prepare a dissertation proposal consisting of a general introduction explaining relevance to the field, an extensive literature review, and an explanation of methodology of the study. Approval of the proposal by the dissertation committee is required.
The work shall be deemed ready for submission as a dissertation at such time as the committee agrees that the student has completed the work and has demonstrated a sufficiently high level of expertise in the area of focus to be called an expert in that area. At that time, the student shall submit the dissertation to the committee and shall defend the dissertation in an oral examination conducted by the committee. This defense shall be open to the public.
Acceptance of the dissertation by Oakland University Graduate School requires favorable recommendations by the dissertation committee. All dissertations must conform to university standards (see
Thesis and Dissertation
).
Academic advising
Upon acceptance into the program, the coordinator of the Ph.D. in music education program advises all students. After the first year of study, each student seeks a dissertation chairperson who will then serve as adviser.
Plan of study
All accepted applicants, in consultation with their committee adviser, must develop a plan of study that details specific courses the student will use to satisfy their degree requirements. The plan of study must be approved by the committee adviser and submitted to Oakland University Graduate School.
Continuous enrollment
The continuous enrollment policy for doctoral students requires continuous registration of graduate students for at least 1 credit each semester in the academic year to maintain an active graduate student status. This includes semesters in which the comprehensive, preliminary or qualifying examination is taken, defense, and each subsequent term (fall and winter) until the degree requirements are met and the dissertation is submitted to Oakland University Graduate School.
Some agency and graduate assistantship eligibility may have course-load requirements that exceed the minimum registration requirements of the Continuous Enrollment Policy (e.g., Veterans Affairs, Immigration and Naturalization for international students, and federal financial aid programs). Therefore, it is the student’s responsibility to register for the appropriate number of credits that are required for funding eligibility and/or compliance as outlined by specific agency regulations under which they are governed.
Time limits
The maximum time limit for completing a Ph.D. degree is no more than ten years from the term of the first course enrollment in the doctoral program.
The Time Limit for Completing a Ph.D. Degree policy requires a student to achieve candidacy within six years from the first course enrollment in the doctoral program. After being advanced to candidacy, a student is expected to complete the remaining degree requirements within four years (including the dissertation defense).
Return to:
Degree Programs and Graduate Certificates
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)

