URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/music-technology/

Bachelor of Music
Music Technology
Our music technology degree equips you to make a good living while you’re making great music.
Oakland University’s Bachelor of Music in Music Technology prepares you for emerging careers in the music industry. You’ll refine your musical talent while gaining practical expertise in digital music technology, acquiring versatile skills that help you turn your passion for music into a profession. Our music technology degree integrates music theory and composition with hands-on training in the most current recording hardware and software. You’ll have opportunities to perform, produce, compose, and engineer, culminating in a professional internship that showcases your ability. You’ll graduate with a marketable music technology degree and multiple routes to a career in the music industry.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University’s Bachelor of Music in Music Technology prepares you for emerging careers in the music industry. You’ll refine your musical talent while gaining practical expertise in digital music technology, acquiring versatile skills that help you turn your passion for music into a profession. Our music technology degree integrates music theory and composition with hands-on training in the most current recording hardware and software. You’ll have opportunities to perform, produce, compose, and engineer, culminating in a professional internship that showcases your ability. You’ll graduate with a marketable music technology degree and multiple routes to a career in the music industry.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Bachelor of Music in Music Technology: The Oakland University Advantage
The music technology degree provides you with unique opportunities to maximize your creative and career opportunities simultaneously. By combining music education with advanced technical training, the degree provides you with a well-rounded suite of complementary skills that equip you to start working as soon as you graduate.
The bachelor’s degree in music technology at Oakland University stands out for its:
Comprehensive hands-on training.
You’ll learn industry-standard techniques for sound engineering, studio recording, live acoustics, and digital production. The music technology degree covers a wide spectrum of platforms and media, including film, video, theatre, live events, and streaming. The program culminates in a senior project that showcases your skills and creativity.
State-of-the-art facilities.
Our digital music lab enables music technology majors to become proficient with professional-caliber microphones, recording software, audio processors, effects plugins, digital workstations, mixing boards, and other music technology. You’ll also be able to work in the control booth in Oakland’s recital hall, operating the sound board for live performances.
Top-quality instructors.
Oakland’s music technology degree is led by seasoned veterans who have years of experience in the creative arts. You’ll learn from award-winners with high-profile credits in television, film, music, theatre, and live performance.
Professional opportunities.
The music technology degree includes a required internship in a recording studio, performing venue, or other work setting. You’ll acquire professional polish and experience that stands out in the job market.
Creative outlets on campus.
Students and faculty throughout Oakland University regularly create films, videos, events, and performances that require high-quality sound production. You can apply your music technology skills on those projects to develop your portfolio and lengthen your resume.
What Can You Do With a Bachelor’s Degree in Music Technology?
The explosion of digital multimedia content in entertainment, business, advertising, and education has created high demand for multifaceted creators who pair musical talent with strong production sensibilities. The
music technology degree
qualifies you to work in multiple capacities, including:
Studio engineering
Video and film sound editing
Live sound engineering
Record production
Film and video music composition
Sound effects
Sound production for exhibitions and events
What You’ll Learn in the Music Technology Program
Admission to all
bachelor of music programs
, including the
music technology degree
, begins with an entrance audition on any instrument (including voice). Please see the
undergraduate catalog
for audition details.
The
Bachelor of Music in Music Technology
requires 20 credits in music technique, 28 credits in music theory and history, and 30 credits in
music technology
and industry practice. Sample
courses in music technology
include:
Basic Recording
Acoustics for Musicians
Advanced Recording Techniques
Orchestration and Arranging
Interactive Computer Music
Music Technology I: MIDI and Sequencing
Music Technology II: Audio Design and Processing
Bachelor’s Degree in Music Technology
Resources
Major Requirements
School of Music, Theatre and Dance
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Bachelor of Music in Music Technology
Not sure if the
music technology degree
is right for you ? Check out these other undergraduate degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Bachelor of Music in Music Education
Bachelor of Music in Vocal Performance
Bachelor of Music in Instrumental Performance
Current Music Technology Internships
Internship Program – Multiple Opportunities at Love Unlimited Church
marketing, comms, design, and sales interns at angelic talent management
SMTD Student Musician at Oakland University
Summer Dance Instructor and Camp Counselor at Camp Danbee
Summer Intern, Talent Buying – AEG Presents Zero Mile (Carolinas) at AEG Worldwide
Spring Intern, Talent Buying – AEG Presents Zero Mile (Carolinas) at AEG Worldwide
Summer Intern, Marketing – AEG Presents (Rocky Mountains) at AEG Worldwide
Spring Intern, Marketing – AEG Presents (Rocky Mountains) at AEG Worldwide
Summer Camp Counselor at Camp Skylemar
Summer Worship Leader Intern at Center Lake Bible Camp
Voiceover Intern - Winter/Spring 2025 (REMOTE) at DDO Artists Agency - Voice Over
Teaching Assistant: Music Industry & Production (Summer 2025) at National Student Leadership Conference
Performing Arts Education Internship at Camp Wicosuta
Internship Opportunities at Interlochen Arts Camp/Interlochen Center for the Arts
Music Teacher Intern at Sleepaway camp at Camp North Star
Choral Music Librarian at Oakland University
Video Editing Intern at Co-x3 Family Foundation
Summer Junior Fellowship Program at HAVAS
+ Show More
- Show Less
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

