URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/master-of-music-in-music-education/

MASTER OF MUSIC
Music Education
Elevate your music education career with advanced expertise in research or instruction.
Take your teaching career to the next level with Oakland University’s Master of Music in Music Education. Whether you’re a seasoned educator aiming to elevate your pedagogical prowess or an eager newcomer looking to enrich your abilities, our master’s in music education provides specialized training to empower you for long-term success. As an OU music education major, you’ll choose from two distinct pathways: our thesis option, centered around research, or our practicum option, focused on practical teaching skills. Our music education degree program also fosters artistic and intellectual growth, immersing you in a dynamic and collaborative community of acclaimed faculty and talented peers. With our master’s degree in music, accredited by the National Association of Schools of Music, you’ll gain the essential knowledge, skills and experience to make a significant impact in your career and in the lives of future musicians.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Take your teaching career to the next level with Oakland University’s Master of Music in Music Education. Whether you’re a seasoned educator aiming to elevate your pedagogical prowess or an eager newcomer looking to enrich your abilities, our master’s in music education provides specialized training to empower you for long-term success. As an OU music education major, you’ll choose from two distinct pathways: our thesis option, centered around research, or our practicum option, focused on practical teaching skills. Our music education degree program also fosters artistic and intellectual growth, immersing you in a dynamic and collaborative community of acclaimed faculty and talented peers. With our master’s degree in music, accredited by the National Association of Schools of Music, you’ll gain the essential knowledge, skills and experience to make a significant impact in your career and in the lives of future musicians.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Master of Music in Music Education: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland’s master’s in music education sets the stage for unparalleled growth and success in your music teaching career. With internationally recognized faculty and accomplished students from diverse backgrounds, OU offers ample teaching, research and performance opportunities for music education majors — along with an active music community in nearby Flint and Detroit, Michigan.
As music education major, you'll have access to:
Holistic pedagogy:
Our Master of Music in Music Education equips you to become an influential and transformative music educator. With our music education degree, you’ll embark on a well-rounded educational journey that encompasses diverse pedagogical strategies, advanced research methodologies and elevated musical concepts.
Personalized mentorship:
As an OU music education major, you’ll benefit from personalized mentorship by accomplished educators and musicians who are devoted to your personal and professional growth. With our master’s in music education, you’ll engage in meaningful collaborations and receive guidance tailored to your career aspirations.
A thriving artistic community:
Oakland’s Master of Music in Music Education features a flourishing musical community that nurtures artistic expression, fosters creativity and offers abundant faculty and peer support. Our music majors forge connections that enrich their experiences in the classroom and beyond.
Customized specializations:
Enjoy the benefits of an advanced music education degree that aligns precisely with your passions and goals. Tailor your Master of Music in Music Education with two distinct tracks: the thesis option for in-depth research exploration or the practicum option for refining practical teaching skills.
Performance opportunities:
As a Master of Music in Music Education student, you can immerse yourself in the vibrant musical fabric of Oakland University by participating in ensembles such as our symphony orchestras, chamber groups and more. These community-oriented experiences provide opportunities for you to enhance your musical talents while enriching your teaching repertoire.
What Can You Do With a Master’s Degree in Music Education?
Shape the future of music education with a master’s degree in music from Oakland University. Our comprehensive program equips you with the skills and expertise to lead, inspire and innovate in the field of music education. Whether you aspire to elevate your role as a K–12 music educator, delve into research or drive curriculum development, our Master of Music in Music Education opens doors to a myriad of exciting career opportunities.
K–12 music educator
Curriculum specialist
Music education researcher
Music program administrator
Educational consultant
Master’s in Music Education Curriculum: What You’ll Learn
Oakland University’s Master of Music in Music Education features a comprehensive curriculum to unlock your full potential as a music educator. To be eligible for the master’s in music education, you must have a bachelor’s degree in music from an accredited institution or its U.S. equivalent with prior teaching experience. The 32-credit music education degree features courses in elementary, secondary, choral and instrumental music teaching, along with two distinctive pathways:
Thesis Option:
With our Master of Music in Music Education thesis option, you’ll engage in hands-on research, develop and present a master’s thesis, and contribute to the advancement of music education knowledge. Sample course offerings for this option include:
Historical and Philosophical Foundations of Music Education
Psychological Foundations of Music Education
Research Methods in Music Education
Practicum Option:
The Master of Music in Music Education practicum option focuses on refining your practical teaching skills and classroom application. You’ll create a practicum analysis and reflection portfolio, and bridge theory and practice in authentic teaching settings. Sample courses include:
Issues in Music Education in the 21st Century
Teaching and Learning Music in the 21st Century
Music Education Advocacy
Music Curriculum Design and Assessment
Master of Music in Music Education Resources
Academic Requirements
School of Music, Theatre and Dance
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Master’s in Music Education
Not sure if the Master of Music in Music Education is right for you? Check out these other master’s degrees in music at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Master of Music in Conducting
Master of Music in Performance
Master of Music in Pedagogy
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

