URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/nursing-bachelor-of-science-bsn/

Bachelor of Science
Nursing (BSN)
Turn your passion into purpose – launch your nursing career by earning a Bachelor of Science in Nursing at Oakland University.
A BSN in nursing is the basic nursing Bachelor of Science degree and the first step toward becoming a registered nurse. After finishing your pre-licensure BSN, you can complete additional schooling to become an advanced nurse, including:
Advanced practice registered nurse
Certified nurse midwife
Certified registered nurse anesthetist
Clinical nurse specialist
Nurse practitioner
With supportive faculty and strong connections with Southeast Michigan’s robust health care systems, OU’s nursing Bachelor of Science program offers a nursing education that meets the highest standards of the profession.
You might be wondering, “How long does it take to become a nurse?” Through OU’s comprehensive program, you can earn your BSN in nursing in just three years. You’ll be well-prepared to pass the National Council Licensure Examination for Registered Nurses (NCLEX-RN) exam and begin your life-changing career in nursing.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
A BSN in nursing is the basic nursing Bachelor of Science degree and the first step toward becoming a registered nurse. After finishing your pre-licensure BSN, you can complete additional schooling to become an advanced nurse, including:
Advanced practice registered nurse
Certified nurse midwife
Certified registered nurse anesthetist
Clinical nurse specialist
Nurse practitioner
With supportive faculty and strong connections with Southeast Michigan’s robust health care systems, OU’s nursing Bachelor of Science program offers a nursing education that meets the highest standards of the profession.
You might be wondering, “How long does it take to become a nurse?” Through OU’s comprehensive program, you can earn your BSN in nursing in just three years. You’ll be well-prepared to pass the National Council Licensure Examination for Registered Nurses (NCLEX-RN) exam and begin your life-changing career in nursing.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Nursing Bachelor of Science (BSN): The Oakland University Advantage
As the largest state-funded nursing program in Michigan, Oakland University’s BSN in nursing prepares you to meet the critical demands of our consistently evolving health care industry.
OU’s nursing Bachelor of Science provides exceptional advantages, including opportunities to:
Learn in first-rate facilities.
Our Simulation Lab provides rich experiential learning opportunities to turn theory into practice. You’ll make real-time clinical decisions in an environment that promotes the competency, confidence and autonomy necessary to succeed in the BSN in nursing program.
Gain insight from connected, committed faculty.
With some classes as small as just six students, you’ll receive personal attention from expert nursing educators and nurse scientists, including some who continue to practice. Their knowledge becomes a competitive advantage when learning how to become a nurse.
Build real-world skills in major medical systems.
Our location in Southeast Michigan is central to all the major medical systems in the region. With more than 500 clinical partnerships, you’ll have incredible opportunities to practice what you learn in your BSN in nursing courses.
Benefit from personalized professional career advising.
As you earn move through the pre-licensure BSN program, you’ll be guided by a dedicated staff of professional career advisers and career services professionals. Their support will help develop your personal career path to succeed as an RN and beyond.
Leverage our extraordinary outcomes to achieve your dreams.
With our 99% job placement rate upon graduation and successful passing of the NCLEX-RN, you’ll be well-positioned to use your BSN in nursing to think critically and compassionately while delivering the best in patient care.
What Can You Do With a Nursing Bachelor of Science (BSN) Degree?
With our elite accreditation, Oakland University’s basic BSN in nursing offers a best-in-class education that is widely recognized in the region and beyond. By cultivating your analytical, professional development and clinical skills, your pre-licensure BSN will prepare you to pass the NCLEX-RN exam, putting you on the path to becoming an RN.
Our nursing Bachelor of Science degree, and successful passage of your nursing exam, may create opportunities for you in areas such as:
Birthing centers
Community health centers
Home health care services
Hospitals
Long-term care facilities
Public and private medical/health clinics
Public and private schools
Businesses or corporations
Nursing Bachelor of Science (BSN) Curriculum
The Oakland BSN in nursing program is a three-year program that requires completion of 125 credit hours. Some of the courses you will take include:
Pharmacology
Research for Evidence-Based Nursing Practice
Nursing Care of Individuals with Behavioral and Mental Health Disorders
Informatics for Nursing Practice
Nursing Leadership
Nursing Care of Communities and Populations
You’ll also complete a nursing capstone/preceptorship project, which facilitates your growth and transition from pre-licensure BSN student to the role of professional RN.
Oakland University’s School of Nursing is accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, the American Association of Colleges of Nursing and the Higher Learning Commission.
Oakland University Nursing Bachelor of Science Resources
Program Requirements
Plan of Study
Financial Assistance
School of Nursing
Programs Related to the Basic BSN in Nursing Degree
Not sure if the basic BSN in nursing degree is right for you? Check out our other nursing degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Wellness and Health Promotion
Accelerated Second-Degree BSN Track (Pre-Licensure)
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

