URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/dnp-crna-program/

Doctor of Nursing Practice
Nurse Anesthesia
Elevate your nursing career by becoming a Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist (CRNA) and join surgical teams who transform lives by providing the highest level of care to patients.
The Oakland University‒Beaumont DNP in nurse anesthesia program is a collaborative initiative between OU and the nationally renowned Beaumont Health. The partnership provides an exceptional educational environment for training CRNAs, allowing graduates to become compassionate clinicians, strong educators, innovative researchers and powerful nurse leaders. If you’re considering a school for nurse anesthesia, our DNP CRNA program is among the best in the country (ranked 18th), according to U.S. News & World Report. We also trailblazed the advanced study of anesthesia by being the first CRNA program in Michigan to offer a DNP-NA.
Our DNP CRNA program’s innovative and integrated curriculum satisfies national nursing anesthesia requirements. Through our clinical internships, you’ll gain hands-on experience and become an expert in providing anesthesia care. After 36 months of full-time study, you’ll be well-prepared to pass the national CRNA certification exam.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
The Oakland University‒Beaumont DNP in nurse anesthesia program is a collaborative initiative between OU and the nationally renowned Beaumont Health. The partnership provides an exceptional educational environment for training CRNAs, allowing graduates to become compassionate clinicians, strong educators, innovative researchers and powerful nurse leaders. If you’re considering a school for nurse anesthesia, our DNP CRNA program is among the best in the country (ranked 18th), according to U.S. News & World Report. We also trailblazed the advanced study of anesthesia by being the first CRNA program in Michigan to offer a DNP-NA.
Our DNP CRNA program’s innovative and integrated curriculum satisfies national nursing anesthesia requirements. Through our clinical internships, you’ll gain hands-on experience and become an expert in providing anesthesia care. After 36 months of full-time study, you’ll be well-prepared to pass the national CRNA certification exam.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
DNP in Nurse Anesthesia Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
Not all schools for nurse anesthesia offer the level of integration you’ll experience through Oakland’s DNP CRNA program. Our
clinical rotations are integrated throughout the plan of study, and our DNP in nurse anesthesia program curriculum contains DNP, advanced practice registered nurse (APRN) and nurse anesthesia specialty courses.
Our DNP in nurse anesthesia program offers you a number of additional advantages, including:
Hands-on expertise through extensive experiential learning opportunities.
Our DNP CRNA program offers practical experiences through more than 30 clinical sites, from large Level 1 trauma centers to independent rural CRNA-only locations. Specialty clinicals run a month at a time to allow proficiency and focus in your specialized area. Our on-site, state-of-the-art simulation lab also allows you to learn anesthesia skills in a controlled environment.
Personal attention from expert, caring faculty in small classes.
All our DNP in nurse anesthesia program faculty hold doctorates and are designers of active, goal-oriented learning processes. You’ll learn alongside a close cohort in small classes led by instructors who are leaders in their field, serve on many state and national committees, and are considered the best in the field.
Success through exceptional student support systems.
Once you are admitted to our DNP CRNA program, you’ll be assigned an upper-class mentor to help you learn and navigate the program. Once on campus, you’ll be welcomed through the Student Success Seminar. From day one, you’ll stay connected to your cohort in person and through multiple apps. You’ll also have access to helpful graduate advisers and admissions coordinators.
Distance education options close to work or home.
If you call Kalamazoo or Marquette home, you can complete the Oakland DNP in nurse anesthesia program without having to move away from your family and friends. You’ll receive the same top-notch DNP CRNA program education and nursing opportunities alongside your local cohort.
What Can You Do With a DNP in Nurse Anesthesia Degree
Compared to other schools for nurse anesthesia, Oakland offers students more opportunities to gain experience with a wide array of patient populations, anesthetic techniques and scopes of practice. Our DNP CRNA program graduates have become successful nurse anesthesia leaders, instructors and managers, and many have gone straight into independent practice. Employers remark that our graduates are well prepared and easily transition into their new roles.
According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the average median annual CRNA DNP salary for a nurse anesthetist is $123,780. In addition, as an Oakland DNP in nurse anesthesia graduate, you’ll be ready for other career positions such as:
Nurse anesthesiology instructor
Independent practice owner or partner
Anesthesia department manager
Assistant or adjunct professor
DNP-NA Curriculum and Nursing Anesthesia Requirements
Oakland’s DNP CRNA program is fully accredited by the Council on Accreditation (COA) for Nurse Anesthesia Programs. The program is full-time and incorporates in-class and hybrid didactic instruction as well as clinical placements. Though the program is 36 months in length, it does require you to have completed a graduate-level statistics course prior to starting to meet nursing anesthesia requirements.
As a DNP nurse anesthesia program student, you’ll take courses such as:
Advanced Pharmacology for Nurse Anesthesia Practice
Organizational and Systems Leadership
Nursing and Healthcare Informatics Leadership
Regional Anesthesia and Pain Management
Advanced Health Assessment for Nurse Anesthesiology
Clinical Prevention and Population Health
Learn more about Oakland’s DNP CRNA program nursing anesthesia requirements and
plan of study
.
Oakland University DNP CRNA Program Resources
Program Requirements
Plan of Study
Oakland University School of Nursing
Programs Related to the DNP Nurse Anesthesia Degree
Nurse Practitioner Program
Clinical Nurse Leader
Forensic Nursing
Doctor of Nursing Practice
Ph.D. in Nursing
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

