URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/family-nurse-practitioner/

FNP Degree
Nurse Practitioner Schooling
Prepare to serve as the leader of a health care team and provide comprehensive medical care to patients of all ages with a Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) degree from Oakland University.
When you earn your FNP degree at OU, you’ll be equipped to serve as a primary care provider for patients from birth to the end of life, using your nurse practitioner schooling to diagnose and treat individuals and provide the best possible medical outcome.
Our nurse practitioner degree program focuses on culturally sensitive care, incorporating health promotion and management of episodic and chronic health problems with a focus on wellness. In addition to performing patient examinations, developing treatment plans and prescribing medications, your FNP degree prepares you to serve as a mentor to registered nurses who are new in their careers.
Graduates of the Family Nurse Practitioner track of our nursing degree program are prepared to take nurse practitioner exams for national certification.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
When you earn your FNP degree at OU, you’ll be equipped to serve as a primary care provider for patients from birth to the end of life, using your nurse practitioner schooling to diagnose and treat individuals and provide the best possible medical outcome.
Our nurse practitioner degree program focuses on culturally sensitive care, incorporating health promotion and management of episodic and chronic health problems with a focus on wellness. In addition to performing patient examinations, developing treatment plans and prescribing medications, your FNP degree prepares you to serve as a mentor to registered nurses who are new in their careers.
Graduates of the Family Nurse Practitioner track of our nursing degree program are prepared to take nurse practitioner exams for national certification.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
FNP Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
Expand your knowledge with OU’s highly respected and accredited School of Nursing, where faculty are experienced nurse practitioners in the field. Use their expertise to cultivate your holistic approach to patient care.
Completing your nurse practitioner schooling with Oakland University sets you up for success through:
Completing your nurse practitioner schooling with Oakland University sets you up for success through:
Real-world insights into major medical systems.
Our location in Southeast Michigan is central to major medical systems in the region. With more than 500 clinical partnerships, you’ll have incredible opportunities to get hands-on learning in your nursing degree program that become immediately applicable and relevant to real-world scenarios.
High-tech, modern facilities.
Our School of Nursing simulation lab provides rich experiential learning opportunities to turn theory into practice. You’ll make real-time clinical decisions in an environment that promotes the competency, confidence and autonomy necessary to succeed in your FNP degree program.
Connected and committed faculty.
Through small class sizes, you’ll receive personal attention from expert nursing degree program educators who continue to practice in the field and serve as nurse scientists. Our faculty have gone through nurse practitioner schooling, so they understand the challenges and opportunities in the profession.
Professional academic and career advising.
As you earn your FNP degree, you’ll be guided by a dedicated staff of professional advisers who make sure you’re on track with your nurse practitioner degree requirements. You’ll also be supported by career advisers to develop your personal career path and help you succeed as a FNP and beyond.
A focus on exam preparation.
Our FNP degree curriculum focuses on preparing you to pass your certification exam through the American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC) or the American Association of Nurse Practitioners (AANP). You’ll graduate with the confidence, insights and knowledge to pass your exam and begin your FNP career right away.
What Can You Do With Your FNP Degree?
Our nurse practitioner degree program prepares you to provide primary care and other medical services in hospitals, medical clinics, doctor’s offices, outpatient care centers and home health care settings.
With your nurse practitioner schooling and successful passage of your nurse practitioner exam, you’ll be prepared to excel in positions such as:
Ambulatory clinic/center director
Director of patient experience
Independent care facility or assisted living facility nurse practitioner
Nurse manager or director
Primary care provider
Quality or safety manager
Telemedicine provider
According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, overall employment of nurse practitioners is projected to grow 40% in the next 10 years, much faster than average for all occupations.
FNP Degree Curriculum
Oakland’s FNP degree track curriculum requires the successful completion of 47 credit hours and a minimum of 630 clinical practice hours. Some courses you will take include:
Advanced Concepts of Pediatric Development and Disease
Advanced Nursing Care of Chronic Health Conditions
Advanced Nursing Care of Pediatric Patients
Advanced Pathophysiology Across the Lifespan
Advanced Pharmacology Across the Lifespan
Interprofessional Role Development, Leadership and Ethics in Advanced Nursing Practice
Oakland University FNP Degree Resources
Admissions Requirements
Plan of Study
Financial Assistance
School of Nursing
Programs Related to the FNP Degree
Not sure if the FNP degree track is right for you? Check out our other graduate nursing degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Master of Nursing / Clinical Nurse Leader program
Master of Nursing / Forensic Nursing
Master of Nursing / Adult/ Gerontological Primary Care Nurse Practitioner
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

