URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/clinical-nurse-leader-msn/

Master of Nursing
Online Clinical Nurse Leader
Oakland University’s online masters in nursing program equips you to make a greater impact in patient care.
Oakland offers the only online masters in nursing program for clinical nurse leaders in the state of Michigan. A part-time online program that’s designed for working nurses, our clinical nurse leader MSN qualifies you for supervisory roles that expand your decision-making authority and raise your earning potential. You’ll get advanced hands-on training in our clinical nurse leader program, pairing online coursework with on-site clinical instruction. The CNL degree equips you to implement evidence-based practice at the point of care, collaborate on interdisciplinary teams, and maximize your impact on patient outcomes. Upon completing the online masters in nursing program for clinical nurse leaders, you’ll be eligible to take the CNL certification exam.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland offers the only online masters in nursing program for clinical nurse leaders in the state of Michigan. A part-time online program that’s designed for working nurses, our clinical nurse leader MSN qualifies you for supervisory roles that expand your decision-making authority and raise your earning potential. You’ll get advanced hands-on training in our clinical nurse leader program, pairing online coursework with on-site clinical instruction. The CNL degree equips you to implement evidence-based practice at the point of care, collaborate on interdisciplinary teams, and maximize your impact on patient outcomes. Upon completing the online masters in nursing program for clinical nurse leaders, you’ll be eligible to take the CNL certification exam.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Clinical Nurse Leader MSN: The Oakland University Advantage
As the only online CNL masters program in Michigan—and one of the few online CNL programs nationwide—this degree lets you balance full-time employment with career-building education.
Offered by Oakland’s highly respected School of Nursing, the program emphasizes:
Evidence-based practice.
Our online clinical nurse leader degree provides rigorous training in the most innovative, clinically advanced methods in care delivery. You’ll gain expertise that heightens your effectiveness and improves patient outcomes.
Personalized attention.
Our online CNL program uses a highly responsive, interactive learning platform that promotes supportive relationships. You’ll build strong connections with faculty and fellow students, enjoying robust mentorship and clinical guidance.
Excellent faculty.
Oakland’s clinical nurse leader program is led by recognized experts in the field. You’ll learn from active researchers who’ve spent years in clinical practice and have proven track records of leadership.
Hands-on skill development.
You’ll acquire a well-rounded set of practical skills that make you a more effective clinician. Our CNL masters program cultivates advanced proficiency in care coordination, interprofessional communication, patient evaluation, change processes, population risk assessment, and other areas.
Experiential learning.
In addition to rigorous academics, our online clinical nurse leader MSN includes 500 practicum hours and an evidence-based quality improvement project. You’ll gain first-hand experience that translates directly to the workplace.
What Can You Do With a Clinical Nurse Leader Masters Degree?
Clinical nurse leaders are in increasing demand across the U.S. health care system. As generalist practitioners, clinical nurse leaders can work across disciplinary boundaries and improve care in multiple clinical settings. Accordingly, the clinical nurse leader masters degree is an extremely marketable credential. You’ll be qualified for jobs in a broad range of settings, including:
Hospitals
Long-term-care facilities
Outpatient clinics
Doctor’s offices
Nursing homes
Academic settings
Online Clinical Nurse Leader Masters Program Curriculum
Oakland’s online MSN degree in clinical nurse leadership is an 18-month, part-time program that combines online coursework with in-person clinical instruction. It consists of 36 total credits, including 19 credits in specialized clinical nurse leader subjects. Online courses address topics such as:
Systems leadership and health policy
Organizational change
Theory and translational research
Population-focused nursing
Health assessment
Pharmacology
Healthcare economics
The program includes a minimum of 500 hours of practicum experience, along with a student-designed, evidence-based quality improvement project. Upon completion of the online CNL program, you’ll be eligible to sit for CNL certification.
Clinical Nurse Leader MSN Resources
Program Requirements
Nursing Graduate Programs
School of Nursing
Programs Related to the Online Clinical Nurse Leader Masters Program
Not sure if the CNL master's degree is right for you? Check out these other graduate programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Master of Nursing in Forensic Nursing
Master of Nursing in Family Nurse Practitioner
Master of Nursing in Gerontological Nurse Practitioner
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

