URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/master-organizational-leadership/

Master of Organizational Leadership
Organizational Leadership
Our organizational leadership master’s degree empowers you to help organizations address 21st-century social and economic challenges.
Oakland University’s Master’s of Organizational Leadership is one of the few degrees of its type in southeast Michigan. An accelerated 12-month program that combines online and in-person classes, our organizational leadership master’s degree equips you to help organizations respond constructively to social and economic change. The master’s of organizational leadership equips you to promote workplace inclusion, accommodate diverse perspectives, cultivate leadership in others, support employees and other stakeholders and facilitate solutions to strategic challenges. Designed for leaders in all types of organizations (including nonprofits, government agencies and private sector companies), the organizational leadership master’s pairs theoretical concepts with hands-on training. You’ll acquire skills and expertise that amplify your professional impact while earning a well-respected organizational leadership degree that raises your career trajectory.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University’s Master’s of Organizational Leadership is one of the few degrees of its type in southeast Michigan. An accelerated 12-month program that combines online and in-person classes, our organizational leadership master’s degree equips you to help organizations respond constructively to social and economic change. The master’s of organizational leadership equips you to promote workplace inclusion, accommodate diverse perspectives, cultivate leadership in others, support employees and other stakeholders and facilitate solutions to strategic challenges. Designed for leaders in all types of organizations (including nonprofits, government agencies and private sector companies), the organizational leadership master’s pairs theoretical concepts with hands-on training. You’ll acquire skills and expertise that amplify your professional impact while earning a well-respected organizational leadership degree that raises your career trajectory.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Master of Organizational Leadership: The Oakland University Advantage
Located in the vibrant, innovative, global industrial hub of Southeast Michigan, Oakland offers an ideal setting for an organizational leadership master’s program. We provide a first-hand look at the current challenges organizations are facing, as well as the solutions they’re implementing to achieve long-range success.
Our organizational leadership degree excels for its:
Case-based curriculum.
Oakland’s Organizational Leadership program translates academic theory into professional practice. You’ll wrestle with real-world organizational challenges while developing strategic polish and advanced communication skills.
Outstanding professors.
You’ll learn from nationally recognized experts in Oakland’s organizational leadership master’s program. Our faculty include thought leaders in human resources, apprenticeship, diversity, equity, inclusion and other aspects of organizational leadership.
Tight-knit community.
As a cohort-based program with small classes, our organizational leadership master’s degree lets you build strong relationships with peers and professors. You’ll develop a personal and professional network that supports you long after graduation.
Emphasis on diversity, equity and inclusion.
Oakland doesn’t just advocate for these values; we practice them. Faculty and students in our Organizational Leadership program come from a broad range of cultures and communities, bringing a diversity of voices and perspectives to your education.
Convenient format.
With an accelerated 12-month timeline and hybrid online/in-person format, Oakland’s master’s of organizational leadership is convenient for working adults as well as full-time students.
What Can You Do With a Master of Organizational Leadership?
The organizational leadership master’s degree prepares you to exercise leadership in your organization and to cultivate leadership skills in colleagues.
You can apply the theoretical concepts and ethical framework of the organizational leadership master’s degree in a variety of professional roles, including (but not limited to):
Human resources
Training and development
Strategic planning
Executive management
Change management
Community engagement
Coaching and corporate training
Master of Organizational Leadership Curriculum
The organizational leadership master’s degree is an accelerated three-semester, 32-credit, cohort-based program offered in online and hybrid courses. You can complete the leadership master’s degree in one calendar year (including summer coursework).
The program consists of the following eight four-credit courses:
Organizational Culture and Change
Developing and Leading Teams
Leadership Theory and Development
Introduction to Human Diversity Inclusion and Social Justice Perspectives
Leadership in a Global Context
Motivation and Leadership in Organizations
Leadership Seminar and Professional Portfolio
Current Trends
Master of Organizational Leadership Program Resources
Academic Requirements
Department of Organizational Leadership
School of Education and Human Services
Programs Related to the Master of Organizational Leadership
Not sure if the Master of Organizational Leadership is right for you? Check out these other graduate degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Master of Business Administration
M.Ed. in Educational Leadership
Lean Leadership Graduate Certificate
Human Diversity Inclusion and Social Justice Graduate Certificate
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

