URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/orthotist-prosthetist-assistant/

Bachelor of Science in Exercise Science
Orthotist and Prosthetist Assistant
This one-of-a-kind orthotics and prosthetics program puts you on the fast track to a growing profession.
Oakland University offers the nation’s first and only accredited college program in orthotist and prosthetist assistant studies. By earning our exercise science degree with specialization in orthotist and prosthetist assistant studies, you’ll gain well-rounded preparation for careers in human movement science, along with specialized skills that qualify you for immediate employment in orthotist and prosthetist assistant jobs. With a flexible format that integrates online courses with in-person training, Oakland University’s orthotist and prosthetist assistant program is accessible to everyone from working adults to full-time students. And our orthotist and prosthetist assistant program provides exceptional preparation for enrollment in a postgraduate orthotist and prosthetist clinician program.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University offers the nation’s first and only accredited college program in orthotist and prosthetist assistant studies. By earning our exercise science degree with specialization in orthotist and prosthetist assistant studies, you’ll gain well-rounded preparation for careers in human movement science, along with specialized skills that qualify you for immediate employment in orthotist and prosthetist assistant jobs. With a flexible format that integrates online courses with in-person training, Oakland University’s orthotist and prosthetist assistant program is accessible to everyone from working adults to full-time students. And our orthotist and prosthetist assistant program provides exceptional preparation for enrollment in a postgraduate orthotist and prosthetist clinician program.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Orthotist and Prosthetist Assistant: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland worked closely with orthotist and prosthetist schools, clinicians, and manufacturers to create the nation’s first and only accredited college program in orthotist and prosthetist assistant studies. You’ll acquire first-rate training that’s based on the education offered in prosthetist and orthotist schools, giving you overwhelming advantages in the market for orthotist and prosthetist assistant jobs.
Oakland’s one-of-a-kind orthotist and prosthetist assistant studies program excels for its:
Accredited curriculum.
Our orthotics and prosthetics assistant program has received authorization from the National Commission on Orthotic and Prosthetic Education (NCOPOE) and is now pursuing full accreditation from the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP).
Elite faculty.
You’ll learn directly from expert clinicians in orthotics and prosthetics, as well as leaders in the industry’s business, research, and manufacturing branches. No other university-based orthotics and prosthetics assistant program offers comparable training.
Practical skill development.
Oakland’s orthotist and prosthetist assistant program emphasizes job-ready skills that have immediate value in the workplace. You’ll develop specialized expertise in bracing, fitting, and other skills that previously have been taught only in prosthetist and orthotist schools.
Real-world experience.
The coursework component of the orthotist and prosthetist assistant program is supplemented by rigorous in-person training in patient-serving clinics. You’ll work alongside professional prosthetists and orthotists, developing job-ready skills that translate directly to the workplace.
Collaboration with aligned disciplines.
The orthotist and prosthetist assistant program works in close partnership with Oakland University’s outstanding exercise science and physical therapy programs. These collaborations broaden your base of knowledge and experience, greatly enhancing your career opportunities and earning potential.
Orthotist and Prosthetist Assistant Job Opportunities
Like a physician’s assistant or physical therapy assistant, an orthotist and prosthetist assistant is an integral part of the clinical care team. With the United States facing a shortage of orthotists and prosthetists, there is growing demand for orthotist and prosthetist assistants who can help meet the shortfall in care.
Our orthotist and prosthetist assistant program can serve as an excellent step toward eventual enrollment in a postgraduate orthotist and prosthetist clinician program. If you choose to enter the workforce, this program gives you a broad base of skills that supports many different career paths. You’ll be qualified to work with employers such as:
Orthotist and prosthetist clinics
Rehabilitation centers
Physical therapy clinics
Hospitals
Long-term care facilities
Orthotist and prosthetist equipment manufacturers
Top Courses for Orthotist and Prosthetist Assistant Studies
The Exercise Science degree with specialization in Orthotist and Prosthetist Assistant Studies begins with 32 credits of foundational coursework in biology, anatomy, physics, and chemistry. You’ll also take required core courses in psychology, exercise science, physiology, biomechanics, health behaviors, and statistical concepts.
To complete the orthotist and prosthetist assistant program, you’ll take 26 credits of coursework in specialized subjects such as:
Practice/Patient Management
Clinical assessment
Fit, function, and modifications
Neuropathic disorders
Spinal orthotics
Upper extremity prosthetics/orthotics
Lower extremity prosthetics/orthotics
Orthotist and Prosthetist Assistant Program Resources
Major requirements
Minor requirements
Exercise Science Department
School of Health Sciences
Programs Related to Orthotist and Prosthetist Assistant Studies
Not sure if the orthotist and prosthetist assistant program is right for you? Check out these other undergraduate programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Bachelor of Science in Exercise Science
Pre-Physical Therapy
Bachelor of Science in Health Sciences
Bachelor of Science in Wellness and Health Promotion
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

