URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/gradaute-certificate-orthopedic-physical-therapy/

Graduate Certificate
ORTHOPEDIC PHYSICAL THERAPY
Elevate your clinical practice skills with a Graduate Certificate in Orthopedic Manual Physical Therapy from Oakland University.
The orthopedic manual physical therapy graduate certificate at Oakland University is designed for physical therapists who are interested in advancing their theoretical and clinical training in topics such as differential diagnosis and manual therapy procedures. You can easily take your orthopedic therapy expertise to new levels with our rigorous courses, flexible class schedules and personalized learning environment.
Build on the knowledge and skills you’ve accrued with your physical therapy degree and work experience with an orthopedic manual physical therapy graduate certificate emphasizing hands-on clinical training and internships. The theory and practical training you’ll receive at OU will help you deliver even higher quality orthopedic therapy treatments for your patients.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
The orthopedic manual physical therapy graduate certificate at Oakland University is designed for physical therapists who are interested in advancing their theoretical and clinical training in topics such as differential diagnosis and manual therapy procedures. You can easily take your orthopedic therapy expertise to new levels with our rigorous courses, flexible class schedules and personalized learning environment.
Build on the knowledge and skills you’ve accrued with your physical therapy degree and work experience with an orthopedic manual physical therapy graduate certificate emphasizing hands-on clinical training and internships. The theory and practical training you’ll receive at OU will help you deliver even higher quality orthopedic therapy treatments for your patients.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Graduate Certificate in Orthopedic Manual Physical Therapy: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland University’s Orthopedic Manual Physical Therapy graduate certificate offers many benefits to students who want to enhance their orthopedic physical therapy practice skills and dive deeper into the theory of orthopedic therapy. From our tight-knit community of students and faculty to our dedication to serving our community, you’ll enjoy an educational experience like no other when you join our graduate certificate in orthopedic physical therapy program.
Explore features that set us apart from other orthopedic therapy programs around the area:
Personalized attention:
As a student in our orthopedic physical therapy program, you’ll enjoy small classes that will give you plenty of chances to work closely with our highly respected and accomplished faculty. You’ll learn from scholars and practitioners who bring their decades of experience in orthopedic therapy and related fields into the classroom to provide meaningful instruction that applies to the real world.
An engaged community of peers:
When you earn your graduate certificate in orthopedic therapy at OU, you’ll become a valuable member of our community and have access to student resources and organizations. Create lasting personal and professional connections while improving your resume and strengthening your orthopedic therapy skills.
Flexible class schedules:
We created our orthopedic manual physical therapy program with the working physical therapist in mind. That’s why graduate certificate courses meet primarily on a weekend and evening basis, giving you the freedom to build on your previous physical therapy degree and experience without sacrificing time with your family or job.
Community outreach:
OU’s School of Health Sciences conducts research and outreach to better our communities and help those most in need. Our research programs can remove sociocultural and logistical barriers for individuals and address personal and social health issues
What Can You Do With a Graduate Certificate in Orthopedic Manual Physical Therapy?
T
here’s no better way to advance the skills you learned in your physical therapy degree program and as a physical therapist than with our graduate certificate in orthopedic physical therapy program. Whether you’re interested in adding more clients, getting a promotion or starting your own orthopedic therapy practice, earning a graduate certificate can greatly increase your career and salary potential.
All of the required courses that comprise the orthopedic therapy graduate certificate can be applied to the Doctor of Science in Physical Therapy degree. This can save you time and money and lead to even more opportunities to grow your career.
Top Courses in the Graduate Certificate in Orthopedic Manual Physical Therapy Program
Our 18-credit-hour graduate certificate is selective, and our faculty and staff look at each applicant holistically to assess the potential for success in the program. Once you’re accepted into the orthopedic physical therapy program, you’ll be assigned a faculty adviser who will help you excel both academically and professionally. Your graduate certificate program will culminate in a practicum consisting of a full-time clinical experience and a professional presentation about what you encountered and learned.
Our orthopedic manual physical therapy certificate curriculum provides advanced study of physical therapy and theory, with courses that include:
Advanced Orthopedics
Applied Movement Sciences
Clinical Orthopedic Internship
Understanding Evidence-Based Practice
Graduate Certificate in Orthopedic Manual Physical Therapy Resources
Graduate certificate requirements
Department of Human Movement Science
School of Health Sciences
Programs Related to the Graduate Certificate in Orthopedic Manual Physical Therapy
Not sure if orthopedic physical therapy is right for you? Check out these other graduate certificate programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Clinical Exercise Science
Exercise Science
Teaching and Learning for Rehabilitation Professionals
Musculoskeletal Physical Therapy Continuing Education
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

