URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/master-of-music-in-pedagogy/

MASTER OF MUSIC
PEDAGOGY
Take your passion for musical education to new creative heights with a Master of Music in Pedagogy.
Oakland University’s Master of Music degree expands your skills as a music educator by exploring different approaches to teaching the art of piano or voice. You’ll develop your historical knowledge and instruction technique while also cultivating your own unique talents. Through collaborative mentorship from world-renowned faculty, a curriculum grounded in excellence and our diverse community of artists, you’ll experience a well-rounded and supportive graduate pedagogy experience.
Discover Oakland’s Master of Music in Pedagogy and see how you can empower the next generation of singers and pianists with the skills needed to succeed in their musical careers.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University’s Master of Music degree expands your skills as a music educator by exploring different approaches to teaching the art of piano or voice. You’ll develop your historical knowledge and instruction technique while also cultivating your own unique talents. Through collaborative mentorship from world-renowned faculty, a curriculum grounded in excellence and our diverse community of artists, you’ll experience a well-rounded and supportive graduate pedagogy experience.
Discover Oakland’s Master of Music in Pedagogy and see how you can empower the next generation of singers and pianists with the skills needed to succeed in their musical careers.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Master of Music in Pedagogy: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland University’s Master of Music degree develops your proficiency in teaching and leadership practices through comprehensive and in-depth inquiry into piano or vocal pedagogy. Experienced pianists and singers will expand their knowledge of repertoire, ensuring that future musicians are learning from the best.
Our advanced pedagogy degree propels your potential through:
An accredited, robust curriculum:
Our Master of Music degree offers a diverse range of courses, including seminars in baroque and classical music and theories of rhythm meter. Through advanced pedagogy coursework, you’ll be equipped with knowledge and experience to educate vocal and piano students while honing your own craft.
A community of lively musicians:
Our location in Southeast Michigan offers numerous opportunities to showcase your artistic skills in vibrant musical communities. On campus, take your Master of Music in Pedagogy to the next level by participating in ensembles like our renowned choir, chamber and chorus groups.
Dedicated faculty artists:
Oakland’s graduate-level pedagogy degree features distinguished faculty who are also professional musicians. Through the lens of educators as well as artistic performers, they offer guidance and support to ensure you’re well-prepared to teach the next generation of pianists and singers.
Relevant professional development opportunities:
Enhance your Master of Music degree through professional development opportunities created specifically for music educators. Explore well-being in the K–8 classroom, accessible teaching strategies, trauma as seen by music educators and other topics (plus, most events qualify for
SCECHs).
What Can You Do With a Master of Music in Pedagogy?
The Master of Music in Pedagogy at Oakland University prepares teachers to be independent thinkers, decision-makers and innovators, providing tools for a lifetime of professional and personal growth. Building on your previous experience as a pianist or singer, you will be equipped to transform the future of music through strategies that address today’s classroom needs.
Graduates with an advanced musical pedagogy degree may explore careers as a:
Arts leader
Collaborative pianist or vocalist
Community music school teacher or administrator
Elementary or secondary music teacher
Postsecondary music teacher
Private studio teacher
Music director
Studio musician
Master of Music in Pedagogy: What You’ll Learn
Our Master of Music in piano or vocal pedagogy brings the concepts and ideas from your coursework directly to today’s classrooms, empowering future musicians to use their artistic skills for success.
Applicants must hold a bachelor’s degree in music from a regionally accredited institution or its U.S. equivalent. A successful audition demonstrating prior experience is also required.
With a well-rounded blend of hands-on instruction and conceptual theory — culminating in a written master’s project that includes a teaching practicum — our advanced pedagogy degree will position you for success as both an educator and a musician.
Oakland’s Master of Music in Pedagogy includes courses such as:
American Music
Seminar in Medieval and Renaissance Music
Seminar in Baroque and Classical Music
Seminar in Music from 1800 to Present
Analytical Techniques in Tonal Music
Analysis of Post-1900 Music
Theories of Rhythm and Meter
Master of Music in Pedagogy Program Resources
Piano pedagogy degree requirements
Vocal pedagogy degree requirements
School of Music, Theatre and Dance
College of Arts and Sciences
Not sure if the Master of Music in Pedagogy is right for you? Check out these other Master of Music degrees at Oakland University, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Master of Music in Performance
Master of Music in Conducting
Master of Music in Education
Master of Music in World Percussion Performance
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

