URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/master-of-music-in-performance/

MASTER OF MUSIC
PERFORMANCE
Elevate your artistry with advanced training in instrumental, piano or voice performance.
Unleash your musical potential and refine your talents with Oakland University’s Master of Music in Instrumental, Piano or Voice Performance. Our master’s in music performance offers a transformative experience that empowers musicians to achieve new heights of artistic expression. Enhance your repertoire, elevate your technique and deepen your musical understanding with three distinct music performance degree options tailored to your aspirations.
The Master of Music in Performance provides a unique blend of rigorous training, personalized mentorship and a vibrant artistic community to nurture your growth and success. With the support of nationally and internationally recognized faculty and a comprehensive curriculum focused on excellence, our Master of Music in Performance will prepare you for a successful and impactful career as a skilled and accomplished performer.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Unleash your musical potential and refine your talents with Oakland University’s Master of Music in Instrumental, Piano or Voice Performance. Our master’s in music performance offers a transformative experience that empowers musicians to achieve new heights of artistic expression. Enhance your repertoire, elevate your technique and deepen your musical understanding with three distinct music performance degree options tailored to your aspirations.
The Master of Music in Performance provides a unique blend of rigorous training, personalized mentorship and a vibrant artistic community to nurture your growth and success. With the support of nationally and internationally recognized faculty and a comprehensive curriculum focused on excellence, our Master of Music in Performance will prepare you for a successful and impactful career as a skilled and accomplished performer.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Master of Music in Performance: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland University’s Master of Music in Performance provides unparalleled opportunities for musical growth and achievement. As an OU music performance major, you’ll benefit from our personalized approach, renowned faculty and comprehensive curriculum. Whether your passion lies in vocal, piano or instrumental performance, our music performance master’s degree will nurture your talent, refine your skills and guide you toward a successful career in music.
Additional highlights of our Master of Music in Performance include:
A personalized experience:
Tailor your educational path to match your passions and goals. Choose from three music performance master’s degree options — instrumental, piano or voice — to ensure your studies align precisely with your artistic vision.
An active musical community:
With our Master of Music in Performance, you’ll immerse yourself in a vibrant musical landscape on campus and in nearby Flint and Detroit, Michigan — with ample opportunities to showcase your artistic skills. As a music performance major, you can participate in ensembles such as our symphony orchestra, wind symphony, jazz band, world music, choir or chamber groups to hone your musical talents and grow as performer.
Dedicated instruction from expert faculty:
Oakland’s master’s in music performance features personalized mentorship from distinguished faculty who are deeply committed to your artistic and professional development. Through one-on-one interactions and meaningful collaborations, you’ll receive tailored guidance that aligns with your unique passions.
Comprehensive academics:
Our Master of Music in Performance provides you with a diverse range of courses from historical seminars to analytical techniques, ensuring a well-rounded education. As a music performance degree graduate, you’ll be equipped with knowledge and experience to excel as a versatile and accomplished performer.
What Can You Do With a Master’s in Music Performance?
The Master of Music in Performance at Oakland University opens doors to diverse and rewarding career paths in the realm of music. As an OU music performance major, you’ll develop sought-after skills, knowledge and artistry to thrive in various roles within the music industry. Whether you aspire to captivate audiences as a soloist, collaborate with fellow musicians, educate the next generation or make your mark as a recording artist, our master’s in music performance prepares you to make a meaningful and lasting impact through your musical endeavors.
Unlock a world of possibilities with your Master of Music in Performance as a:
Choral director
Collaborative musician
Music/artistic director
Music critic/journalist
Music technology specialist
Orchestra manager/administrator
Private music instructor
Recording artist
Soloist
Studio musician
Master of Music in Performance: What You’ll Learn
Our master’s in music performance enhances your proficiency, deepens understanding of musical styles and eras, and cultivates artistic expression. Applicants must hold a bachelor’s degree in music from a regionally accredited institution or its U.S. equivalent. A successful audition demonstrating prior experience is also required.
With a comprehensive blend of core seminars, analytical studies and technical instruction, culminating with a master’s recital, project and oral presentation — our music performance master’s degree provides a transformative experience to broaden your horizons as both a student and performer of music.
Our music performance degree curriculum is thoughtfully crafted to provide a well-rounded education, including courses such as:
Seminar in Medieval and Renaissance Music
Seminar in Baroque and Classical Music
Seminar in Music from 1800 to Present
Analytical Techniques in Tonal Music
Analysis of Post-1900 Music
Theories of Rhythm and Meter
Music Performance Degree Program Resources
Instrumental Performance degree requirements
School of Music, Theatre and Dance
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Master’s in Music Performance
Master of Music in Conducting
Master of Music in Education
Master of Music in Pedagogy
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

