URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/political-science-law-jd/

Bachelor of Science
Political Science and Juris Doctor Degree, 3+3
Earn a law degree in less time, for less money, while you develop a broad set of marketable professional skills.
Oakland University’s political science and law degree 3+3 program puts you on an accelerated track to a career in law, public service or a related field. Under this unique pre-law program, you’ll earn a bachelor’s degree in political science and a law degree from one of three partner law schools, completing both degrees in six years—one year faster than a traditional path. Oakland’s political science major offers robust pre-professional training, giving you a competitive edge heading into law school. In addition to saving you a year of tuition, the political science and law 3+3 program equips you to make a difference as a lawyer, government official, nonprofit advocate or business leader.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University’s political science and law degree 3+3 program puts you on an accelerated track to a career in law, public service or a related field. Under this unique pre-law program, you’ll earn a bachelor’s degree in political science and a law degree from one of three partner law schools, completing both degrees in six years—one year faster than a traditional path. Oakland’s political science major offers robust pre-professional training, giving you a competitive edge heading into law school. In addition to saving you a year of tuition, the political science and law 3+3 program equips you to make a difference as a lawyer, government official, nonprofit advocate or business leader.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Political Science and Law Degree 3+3 Program: The Oakland University Advantage
Unlike comparable accelerated pre-law programs, Oakland University’s political science and law degree 3+3 has cooperative agreements with multiple law schools. You can pursue your law degree at Michigan State University, Wayne State University or the University of Detroit Mercy, giving you more options and greater flexibility.
Our 3+3
pre-law program
also offers:
Professional experience and connections.
Our
political science majors
benefit from Oakland’s tradition of civic engagement and wide network of community partners. You’ll have extensive opportunities (including potential internships) to interact with legislative bodies, government agencies, nonprofits, policy shops, lobbying firms and similar organizations.
Robust undergraduate research.
While earning your
political science degree
, you can get outstanding
pre-law
training as a research assistant or collaborator. Oakland faculty regularly collaborate with undergraduate
political science majors
on journal submissions and conference presentations, enabling you to build your credentials and cultivate advanced research and writing skills.
Exceptional faculty.
Our
political science program
is led by internationally recognized experts in subjects such as European politics, international relations, U.S. Congress, state and local elections, and the role of information technology in American politics. You’ll take nearly all of your
political science courses
directly from senior faculty, getting superior
pre-law
preparation that integrates classroom instruction with professional insights.
A dynamic campus community.
You’ll belong to one of the nation’s most politically active student bodies, with extremely high voting rates and diverse perspectives. Oakland’s successful Model UN team and Center for Civic Engagement are especially popular among
political science majors
.
Flexible curriculum.
Our
political science degree
offers a high degree of freedom in course selection, so you can tailor your studies to align with the
law degree
. Many options fit well within a
pre-law program
, covering areas such as civil rights, judicial process, constitutional law, the U.S. Supreme Court, negotiation and international law.
What Can You Do With Political Science and Law Degrees?
With both a
political science bachelor’s degree
and a
law degree
, you’ll enter the workforce with elite credentials. Upon passing the bar exam you’ll be qualified to practice law in a wide range of specialized areas. Examples include (but are not limited to) litigation, taxes, torts, corporate law, criminal law, labor law, environmental law and immigration.
If you choose not to pursue a
law career
, a law degree can still help you attain leadership roles in many different professions. Combined with a political science background, a
law degree
provides excellent preparation for careers in fields such as:
Public administration
International policy
Nonprofit leadership
Business
Journalism
Education
Political Science and Law Degree 3+3 Program: What You’ll Learn
You can achieve significant savings on a
law degree
through Oakland’s 3+3 program, because 30 credits from your first year in
law school
count toward both the bachelor’s degree and the juris doctor.
To be eligible for accelerated admission to
law school
under the 3+3 program, you must complete required courses for the
political science major
and university general education requirements by the end of your junior year. The 30 first-year
law degree
credits will also count as electives toward the bachelor’s degree.
In order to meet academic requirements on time and maximize the benefits of the 3+3 program, it’s recommended that you work carefully with academic advisers beginning in your freshman year.
Political Science and Law Degree 3+3
Program Resources
Major Requirements
Department of Political Science
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Political Science and Law Degree 3+3 Program
Not sure if the
political science and law degree 3+3 program
is right for you? Check out these other undergraduate degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Bachelor of Arts in Political Science
Bachelor of Arts in Political Science, Specialization in Courts, Justice and Politics
Bachelor of Science in Public Administration and Public Policy
Bachelor of Arts in International Relations
Current Political Science and Law Degree Internships
Researcher at Vote Smart
Financial Specialist Pathways Student Intern at Federal Highway Administration
Summer 2025 MRCTV Internship at Media Research Center
American Cities Program Summer Graduate Intern at The Kresge Foundation
Tallgrass | Intern-Government and Public Affairs at Blackstone LaunchPad
2025 Spring Internship at West Fort Worth Management, LLC
Research / MEL Trainee | Voluntas Analyst Program at Voluntas Advisory ApS
Intern Support Technician - Maritime Division at Texas Department of Transportation
Compliance Intern at Wacker Chemical Corporation
CAUSE Leadership Academy (CLA) Internship at Center for Asian Americans United for Self Empowerment (CAUSE)
Global Tax Internship Hybrid at ManpowerGroup
Government and Public Affairs Intern at Micron Technology Inc.
Government and Public Affairs Intern at Micron Technology Inc.
Internship at Gingrich 360
National Wildlife Refuge Visitor Survey Field Team Members- Traveling Nationally at American Conservation Experience
Teaching Assistant: Political Action & Public Policy (Summer 2025) at National Student Leadership Conference
Teaching Assistant: International Law & Politics (Summer 2025) at National Student Leadership Conference
A.T.I. Summer Leadership Training at AUCC, Inc.
2025 Summer Internship at West Fort Worth Management, LLC
University Recruitment Summer Analyst Internship at Rios Partners
University Recruitment Summer Consultant Internship at Rios Partners
Student Intern - Community Engagement and Trainer at City of Racine
Spring 2025 MRCTV Internship at Media Research Center
Spring 2025 External Affairs Intern at Media Research Center
LGBTQ+ Victory Congressional Internship - Summer 2025 at LGBTQ Victory Institute
Campus Organizing Fellow at 2024 Coordinated Campaign
Co-op - Corporate Security  at Yazaki of North America, Inc.
Student Intern - Community Engagement and Trainer Bilingual Spanish at City of Racine
2025 Summer Analyst Program: Financial Crimes Control Office - Tempe, AZ at MUFG
Regional Field Coordinator at Faith and Freedom Coalition of South Carolina
Intern at CWGI, LLC
Our Water Activist Fellowship at Michigan League of Conservation Voters
National Security and International Affairs Summer 2025 Research Intern at The Institute of World Politics
Technology Reform Intern at Issue One
Policy Director at Landon for Ohio
Nonprofit Leadership Internship (UNPAID) at Borgen Project
Political Affairs Internship (UNPAID) at Borgen Project
+ Show More
- Show Less
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

