URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/political-science-courts-justice-politics/

Bachelor of Arts Degree
Political Science with Specialization in Courts, Justice and Politics
Our political science degree combines rigorous academics with focused professional development.
The courts, justice and politics specialization of Oakland University’s political science degree offers practical, affordable preparation for careers in law, government, policy analysis, reform advocacy and other professions related to political science. With small class sizes and extremely well-qualified faculty, our political science degree features outstanding academic training and advanced opportunities for undergraduate research. You’ll also have extensive opportunities to gain hands-on experience in legislatures, courts, advocacy organizations and other real-world settings. Whether you’re bound for the workforce, law school, a graduate political science degree or another career destination, our political science major gives you a competitive edge that can translate into professional success.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
The courts, justice and politics specialization of Oakland University’s political science degree offers practical, affordable preparation for careers in law, government, policy analysis, reform advocacy and other professions related to political science. With small class sizes and extremely well-qualified faculty, our political science degree features outstanding academic training and advanced opportunities for undergraduate research. You’ll also have extensive opportunities to gain hands-on experience in legislatures, courts, advocacy organizations and other real-world settings. Whether you’re bound for the workforce, law school, a graduate political science degree or another career destination, our political science major gives you a competitive edge that can translate into professional success.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Political Science Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland University’s political science degree offers high-quality, career-focused instruction at a comparatively low cost. The institution’s long tradition of civic engagement adds significant value to our political science degree, enabling you to connect on campus and in the community with professionals who are active in the legal, judicial and political systems.
In addition, our
political science program
enables you to:
Get immersed in real-world settings.
You’ll enjoy superior opportunities to gain first-hand experience in our
political science program
.  Most students complete at least one internship that closely aligns with their career goals, and we routinely send
political science majors
to the Michigan state legislature for summer work placements.
Develop graduate-level research skills.
Our
political science majors
routinely collaborate with faculty on research, often gaining co-authorship credit and presenting at academic conferences. This type of achievement makes a strong impression on your graduate school application or resume.
Learn from high-caliber faculty.
Oakland’s
political science degree
is led by accomplished scholars and practitioners, including many who’ve earned national recognition for their research. Several of our
political science
instructors hold law degrees, and our small class sizes ensure that you’ll get personal attention from every professor.
Explore your career options.
The
political science degree
’s flexible course requirements enable you to learn about various possible careers. Our
political science majors
have strong LSAT scores, and we also offer a special 3+3 option that saves you time and money on a law degree. The program also provides strong preparation for careers in nonprofit advocacy, public service, government administration, or policy analysis.
Be part of a dynamic student community.
The
political science department
is among the most active on campus. You’ll belong to a student population that won national recognition for high voter participation, with an honors society chapter that has repeatedly been recognized as the best in the country. In addition, our Center for Civic Engagement sponsors events and activities that engage the entire university and surrounding communities.
What Can You Do With a Political Science Degree?
The courts, justice and politics specialization of Oakland’s
political science degree
offers excellent preparation for particular types of
jobs in political science
. Our graduates routinely go into the workforce in jobs related to public policy analysis, political advocacy, consulting, community organizing and other forms of civic involvement.  Many go to law school, gaining admission to prestigious institutions such as Harvard, Michigan, Michigan State, Indiana and Georgetown. Others pursue graduate
degrees in political science
and prepare for academic careers.
At the same time, Oakland’s
political science degree
offers a broad liberal arts foundation that has value in almost every industry. You’ll enter the job market as an excellent writer, independent thinker, strong communicator and effective collaborator.
A partial list of employers who’ve hired recent graduates of Oakland’s
political science program
includes:
U.S. Department of State
Social Security Administration
Office of Governor Rick Snyder
City of Detroit
City of Ferndale
Rocket Fiber
National Diversity Council
AmeriCorps
Peace Corps
Americans for Prosperity
JP Morgan Chase
Kelly Services
Fiat USA
Quicken Loans
Comerica Bank
Oakland County Circuit Court
Political Science Major: What You’ll Learn
To earn the
political science degree
with specialization in courts, justice and politics, you’ll begin with an introductory course and a core cluster that covers data analysis, research processes, and world politics or comparative politics. The program includes required courses in political thought and law, plus a minimum of three elective courses.
Political science
electives focus on subjects such as:
Congress and the legislative processes
The judicial process
Constitutional law
Civil rights
Gender discrimination
International law
Comparative / international politics
The political science degree culminates in an advanced seminar and capstone project that showcases your skills in research, writing and critical analysis.
Political Science Program Resources
Major Requirements
Minor Requirements
Political Science Department
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Bachelor’s Degree in Political Science
Not sure if the
political science degree
is right for you ? Check out these other undergraduate programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Bachelor of Arts in International Relations
Bachelor of Arts in History
Bachelor of Science in Public Administration and Public Policy
Current Political Science with Specialization in Courts, Justice and Politics Internships
Researcher at Vote Smart
Financial Specialist Pathways Student Intern at Federal Highway Administration
Summer 2025 MRCTV Internship at Media Research Center
American Cities Program Summer Graduate Intern at The Kresge Foundation
Tallgrass | Intern-Government and Public Affairs at Blackstone LaunchPad
2025 Spring Internship at West Fort Worth Management, LLC
Research / MEL Trainee | Voluntas Analyst Program at Voluntas Advisory ApS
Intern Support Technician - Maritime Division at Texas Department of Transportation
Compliance Intern at Wacker Chemical Corporation
CAUSE Leadership Academy (CLA) Internship at Center for Asian Americans United for Self Empowerment (CAUSE)
Global Tax Internship Hybrid at ManpowerGroup
Government and Public Affairs Intern at Micron Technology Inc.
Government and Public Affairs Intern at Micron Technology Inc.
Internship at Gingrich 360
National Wildlife Refuge Visitor Survey Field Team Members- Traveling Nationally at American Conservation Experience
Teaching Assistant: Political Action & Public Policy (Summer 2025) at National Student Leadership Conference
Teaching Assistant: International Law & Politics (Summer 2025) at National Student Leadership Conference
A.T.I. Summer Leadership Training at AUCC, Inc.
2025 Summer Internship at West Fort Worth Management, LLC
University Recruitment Summer Analyst Internship at Rios Partners
University Recruitment Summer Consultant Internship at Rios Partners
Student Intern - Community Engagement and Trainer at City of Racine
Spring 2025 MRCTV Internship at Media Research Center
Spring 2025 External Affairs Intern at Media Research Center
LGBTQ+ Victory Congressional Internship - Summer 2025 at LGBTQ Victory Institute
Campus Organizing Fellow at 2024 Coordinated Campaign
Co-op - Corporate Security  at Yazaki of North America, Inc.
Student Intern - Community Engagement and Trainer Bilingual Spanish at City of Racine
2025 Summer Analyst Program: Financial Crimes Control Office - Tempe, AZ at MUFG
Regional Field Coordinator at Faith and Freedom Coalition of South Carolina
Intern at CWGI, LLC
Our Water Activist Fellowship at Michigan League of Conservation Voters
National Security and International Affairs Summer 2025 Research Intern at The Institute of World Politics
Technology Reform Intern at Issue One
Policy Director at Landon for Ohio
Nonprofit Leadership Internship (UNPAID) at Borgen Project
Political Affairs Internship (UNPAID) at Borgen Project
+ Show More
- Show Less
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

