URL: https://www.oakland.edu/shs/interdisciplinary-health/pre-pharmacy/

Pre-pharmacy
Within the
Department of Interdisciplinary Health Sciences
, choose to pursue a Bachelor of Science in Health Sciences degree with a concentration in Pre-pharmacy. This concentration prepares you to meet the academic prerequisites necessary to be considered for admission to Doctor of Pharmacy (Pharm.D.) programs.
Curricular Requirements
Degree Plan
Academic Advising
Apply
Curriculum
In the Pre-pharmacy program, you will complete courses in basic health sciences; specific pharmacy-related courses in areas such as medical terminology, chemistry, and physics; and either Pharm.D. coursework (if admitted to a Pharm.D. program) or elective credits. Detailed requirements can be found in the Undergraduate Catalog (see
Curricular Requirements
).
Experience-Based Learning
The OU Pledge
is our commitment to provide experience-based and hands-on learning through participation in programs, student and professional organizations, research, community engagement and more.
Possibilities include:
Community Health Engagement and Empowerment Research (CHEER) Lab
ECLIPSE Leadership Initiative
Pre-Pharmacy Society
Career Information
Pharmacists work in a wide variety of public and private settings, such as community pharmacies, hospitals, long-term care facilities, pharmaceutical companies, managed care organizations, and government agencies.
Job Outlook
Over the next decade, the
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics
(BLS) expects
health care jobs to grow much faster than average, with about 1.8 million job openings per year.
Average Salary
The BLS reports that the median annual wage for
pharmacists
with a doctoral or professional degree was $136,030 in May 2023.
Resources
American Association of Pharmaceutical Scientists
American Pharmacists Association
Pharmacy College Application Service (PharmCAS)
Pre-Pharmacy Society
Contact Us
Edward Rohn, Ph.D.
Director, Assistant Professor
Interdisciplinary Health Sciences
[email protected]
Academic Advising
3070 Human Health Building
[email protected]
(248) 370-2369

