URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/productivity-improvement-certificate/

Graduate Certificate
Productivity Improvement
Take your engineering career to the next level with enhanced skills to boost productivity across various industries.
Oakland University’s Graduate Certificate in Productivity Improvement is designed for
any engineer
seeking career advancement or a competitive edge in their current job. With our engineering graduate certificate, you’ll gain specialized skills and knowledge to increase your potential through improved efficiency and effectiveness. Choose from flexible course options covering a broad range of topics essential to enhancing productivity, including quality, workflow and supply chain analysis, systems design, decision-making and more. Our engineering graduate certificate also provides insights into the latest tools and techniques in areas such as human factors, robotics, automation and data analytics. You’ll learn to work better, faster and with less waste — all while developing sought-after experience to stand out in today’s competitive workforce.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University’s Graduate Certificate in Productivity Improvement is designed for
any engineer
seeking career advancement or a competitive edge in their current job. With our engineering graduate certificate, you’ll gain specialized skills and knowledge to increase your potential through improved efficiency and effectiveness. Choose from flexible course options covering a broad range of topics essential to enhancing productivity, including quality, workflow and supply chain analysis, systems design, decision-making and more. Our engineering graduate certificate also provides insights into the latest tools and techniques in areas such as human factors, robotics, automation and data analytics. You’ll learn to work better, faster and with less waste — all while developing sought-after experience to stand out in today’s competitive workforce.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Graduate Certificate in Productivity Improvement: The Oakland University Advantage
Our Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering certificate program faculty are experts in their field and have a passion for sharing their knowledge and experience with students. Through their teaching, research and close ties to local industry, they are well-positioned to prepare you for success in the classroom and in your career.
Our professional engineering certificate in productivity improvement also features:
Experiential learning.
Our engineering graduate certificate courses provide practical experience with cutting-edge tools and technology. You’ll develop and refine your professional expertise through courses such as robotic systems that feature extensive, hands-on learning. You’ll also have access to innovative facilities, including our PLM Lab, Human Factors Lab, Systems Design and Decisions Lab, and Sharf Computer-Integrated Manufacturing Lab.
Convenient location.
Oakland’s 1,441-acre campus in Auburn Hills and Rochester Hills, Michigan, is situated in the heart of automotive manufacturing between Detroit and Flint. We collaborate closely with area industries such as automakers and suppliers, banks and health care organizations to create opportunities to help you reach your career goals. In addition, the majority of students in our master’s and engineering certificate programs work and stay in the area after finishing their program.
Dedicated career support.
Our School of Engineering and Computer Science career services team is committed to helping you secure full-time positions or internships that lead to job offers. In fact, nearly 100 percent of our graduate and professional engineering certificate students are either employed or find jobs before or soon after graduation. Our alumni work for leading companies, including Siemens, Stellantis, Ford, GM, Comerica, Disney and Home Depot, among many others.
Flexibility.
Your time is valuable. That’s why our engineering graduate certificate program offers the flexibility to balance work, life and study while pursuing your education. You can customize your program by selecting the courses that interest you the most, which includes evening in-person and online options. Depending on your schedule, you can complete the program in just 3–4 semesters.
What Can You Do With Our Engineering Graduate Certificate?
The Graduate Engineering Certificate in Productivity Improvement from Oakland University prepares you for promising growth opportunities in industrial, manufacturing and systems engineering. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics projects employment of industrial engineers — including those with expertise in productivity improvement — to grow 10 percent over the next decade, which is more than the average for all occupations.
While industrial engineers can earn about $95,300 annually, based on BLS data, those with specialized training, such as our manufacturing and systems engineering certificate, have the potential to earn significantly more. The demand for professionals who can optimize production processes and reduce costs are needed across industries, including:
Automotive
Banking and finance
Consulting
Energy and utilities
Government
Health care
Manufacturing
Supply chain and logistics
Technology
Transportation
Engineering Graduate Certificate: What You’ll Learn
Our graduate engineering certificate program’s flexible 4–5 course requirement allows you to tailor your program to your goals.
Select any three courses from:
Statistical Quality Analysis
Lean Principles and Application
Product Lifecycle Management
Production Systems and Workflow Analysis
Supply Chain Modeling and Analysis
Engineering Decision Analysis
E-commerce and ERP
Foundations of Systems Engineering I
Statistical Methods in Engineering
Engineering Operations Research – Stochastic Models
Computer Simulation of Discrete Event Systems
Computer-Integrated Manufacturing Systems
Select one to two courses (totaling four credits) from the list above or from 15+ additional courses, including:
Engineer Project Management, Human Factors, Robotic Systems, Industrial Automations Systems, Data Analytics and more.
Productivity Improvement Program Resources
Program Requirements
School for Engineering and Computer Science
Continuing Education
Programs Related to the Productivity Improvement Certificate
Not sure if our engineering graduate certificate is right for you? Check out these other engineering graduate degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Master of Science in Industrial and Systems Engineering
Master of Science in Systems Engineering
Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering
Master of Sciences in Mechatronic Systems Engineering
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

