URL: https://www.oakland.edu/cip/programs/

Programs and Courses
Each semester the International Studies Program offers a variety of regionally-oriented courses that expose students to the culture, history and politics of a particular world region. All courses are inter-disciplinary, meaning students are exposed to perspectives from the arts, humanities, geography, and social sciences. Course cover both historical development and contemporary issues. Courses are regularly offered in both traditional and on-line formats.  All fulfill Oakland's
Global Perspective General Education
requirement.
The International Studies Program offers
active majors
in:
East Asian Studies - Japan
East Asian Studies - China
Latin America
Requirements for the liberal arts majors in international studies, B.A. programs
The international studies majors consist of a minimum of 40 credits, of which 28 credits must be taken in the primary area (East Asian studies, Latin American studies); 12 credits in a complementary area of study, and language proficiency equivalent to 8 credits of work at the third year of study in an appropriate language.  Language courses at the 1000 and 2000 level do not count toward the total number of credits for the major in either the primary or secondary area. The complementary area of study ordinarily consists of the appropriate introductory international studies course and two additional courses in the area, which may be either international studies courses or departmental courses. Duplication of course credit in the primary and complementary areas is not permitted. However, majors may apply their courses in international studies to their general educational requirements.
Minor programs in the study of various world areas, each requiring 20 credits of coursework, are also offered.
For advising on all ISP programs, please contact:
Elizabeth (Liz) Shesko
International Studies Program Director
[email protected]
(248) 370-3529
East Asian Studies, B.A. Program
China
Course requirements for the major in Chinese studies includes IS 2100 plus 20 additional credits drawn from the following
list of courses.
PLUS
8 additional credits required may be from 3000 level or 4000 level Chinese language courses
AND
12 additional credits for the complementary area of study which is Japanese studies.
Check out the
OU China Club
on Facebook!
Japan
Course requirements for the major in Japanese studies include IS 2200 plus 20 credits drawn from the following
list of courses
.
PLUS
8 additional credits required may be from 3000 level or 4000 level Japanese language courses
AND
12 additional credits for the complementary area of study which is Chinese studies.
Students wishing to study in Japan may do so through an exchange program between Oakland University and Nanzan University, Nagoya, Japan, and the Japan Center for Michigan Universities, Hikone, Shiga, Japan. See
Study Abroad
opportunities.
Latin American Studies, B.A. Program
Course requirements for the major in Latin American studies include:
IS 2500 (Perspectives on Latin America)
16 credits in history, anthropology, political science, or music courses focused on Latin America
8 credits of Spanish language courses at the 3000 level or 4000 level
12 credits in history, English, anthropology, political science, sociology, or music course focused on the complementary area of African and African-American Studies
For more information and a list of approved electives, see the
catalog requirements
.
Minor Programs
Requirements for the liberal arts minors in International Studies:
Minors in International Studies consist of a minimum of 20 credits in any of single world areas designated below for major programs, distributed as follows:
Introductory course in the chosen area of study.
16 additional credits from among the course offerings in the chosen world area of study, including up to, but no more than, 8 credits of language study appropriate to the chosen area, at any level.
Relevant independent study, directed research or special topics course work (e.g., IS 3000) may also count toward fulfillment of the minor requirements, subject to International Studies Program academic adviser approval.
African and African-American Studies
Chinese Studies
Japanese Studies
Latin American Studies
Middle Eastern Studies
Russian and East European Studies
South Asian Studies
Refer to the
Oakland University Undergraduate Catalog
for specific information regarding the courses that need to be completed for a minor.
International Studies Program
Varner Hall, Room 217
371 Varner Drive
Rochester, MI 48309-4485
(location map)
International Studies Program
Varner Hall, Room 217
371 Varner Drive
Rochester, MI 48309-4485
(location map)

