URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/psychology-law-jd/

Bachelor of Arts Degree
Psychology and Juris Doctor Degree, 3+3
Save a full year’s tuition on a law degree and acquire training that sets you apart in the job market.
Oakland University’s psychology and law degree 3+3 program offers a fast, affordable path to a law career. You’ll complete a psychology bachelor’s degree and a law degree in just six years, one year faster than it would take to earn both degrees separately. In addition, the program offers unique pre-law preparation that gives you distinct advantages over your law school peers. You’ll study human behaviors and motivations in the psychology degree, while becoming proficient in writing, conducting research, evaluating evidence, formulating logical arguments and other skills you’ll need in a legal career. You’ll graduate with a law degree from a nationally ranked school and a broad foundation for professional success.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University’s psychology and law degree 3+3 program offers a fast, affordable path to a law career. You’ll complete a psychology bachelor’s degree and a law degree in just six years, one year faster than it would take to earn both degrees separately. In addition, the program offers unique pre-law preparation that gives you distinct advantages over your law school peers. You’ll study human behaviors and motivations in the psychology degree, while becoming proficient in writing, conducting research, evaluating evidence, formulating logical arguments and other skills you’ll need in a legal career. You’ll graduate with a law degree from a nationally ranked school and a broad foundation for professional success.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Psychology and Law Degree 3+3 Program: The Oakland University Advantage
In addition to saving you time and tuition on a law degree, our psychology-law 3+3 program helps you get your career in law off to a fast start. You’ll acquire skills and experience that distinguish you from most law students, giving you a competitive edge when you seek your first job as a lawyer.
Oakland University’s
psychology and law degree 3+3 program
also excels for its:
Affiliation with
nationally ranked law schools
.
You can seek early
law school
admission at either Wayne State University or University of Detroit Mercy. Both institutions appear in the top 100 of
U.S. News and World Report
’s 2020 rankings of
top law schools
.
Advanced research training.
Oakland University’s
psychology major
includes coursework in research design, methodology and statistical analysis. Many
pre-law
programs don’t address these skills at all, and few cover them as comprehensively as our
psychology degree
, so you’ll be ahead of the curve entering law school.
Hands-on field experience.
Our
psychology degree
provides multiple opportunities to earn academic credit via internships in mental health clinics, social service agencies and other real-world settings. You can advance your
pre-law
training by arranging psychology internships that overlap with legal issues such as substance abuse, juvenile delinquency and domestic violence.
Extensive faculty attention.
Like most undergraduate programs at Oakland, the
psychology degree
features small classes taught by senior faculty (not graduate students). Professors will take a personal interest in your success and help you maximize the pre-law components of the
psychology major
, both inside and outside the classroom.
Academic freedom.
Elective courses make up a large share of the required credits for the
psychology degree
, so you’ll enjoy broad independence to focus your studies in preparation for
law school
.
What Can You Do With a Combined Psychology Major / Law Degree ?
With both a
bachelor’s degree in psychology
and a
law degree
, you’ll be extremely well qualified for a career as a practicing attorney. Lawyers participate in complex interactions that often involve intense emotions, so the ability to understand human
psychology
and behavior can make you a more effective legal advocate
—
particularly in roles such as negotiation, mediation, interrogation and persuasion.
In addition, a
psychology-law degree
combination enables you to broaden your range of professional options.  You may find opportunities in fields such as:
Nonprofit leadership
Public administration
Business
Journalism
Education
Psychology and Law Degree 3+3 Program: What You’ll Learn
Under the
psychology/law degree
3+3 program, 30 credits from your first year of law school count toward both the
law degree
and the
bachelor’s degree in psychology
. As a result, you can earn both degrees in six years, a full year less than it would take to earn the degrees separately.
The academic program for our
psychology major
offers broad flexibility, enabling you to focus your studies on
pre-law
preparation. You’ll gain useful insights about emotional development and social dynamics, practical skills in social science research and statistical analysis, and hands-on community experience with populations that frequently interact with the legal system.
If you complete psychology major requirements by the end of the junior year, you’ll be eligible to apply for accelerated law school admission at Wayne State University and University of Detroit Mercy. We recommend that you work closely with academic advisers beginning in the freshman year to plan courses carefully and ensure that you fulfill all psychology degree requirements in time to qualify for law school admission after your junior year.
Psychology and Law Degree 3+3 Program Resources
Major Requirements
Department of Psychology
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Psychology and Law 3+3 Program
Not sure if the
psychology and law degree 3+3
program is right for you? Check out these other programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Political Science and Law Degree 3+3 Program
Accelerated Psychology Master’s Degree
Psychology BA and Board Certified assistant Behavior Analyst (BCaBA) program
Current Psychology and Juris Doctor Degree Internships
Bachelor Level Social Work/Psychology/Criminal Justice Internship at The Child Advocacy Center of Lapeer County
2025 1L Summer Associate at Uber
Mentor Young Adults with Disabilities this Summer at Ramapo for Children
Social Services Assistant at Academic Programs International
Social Services Assistant at Academic Programs International
Counseling Internship at BLOOM365
School Psychologist Internship at Omaha Public Schools
Psychology Practicum Program- Maryland at National Security Agency (NSA)
NACDD Public Health AmeriCorps Utah I Service Member at AmeriCorps
Child and Family Services Internship (Summer 2025) at Nebraska Department of Health & Human Services
Housing Resource Center Internship at MiSide
Outreach Associate Intern at Resilience, Inc.
CollegePath Student Ambassador at Arci
School Psychologist Intern at Hudsonville Public Schools
Intern - Legal at NetApp
Clinical Social Worker - Care Management at PeaceHealth
MDHHS Office of Workforce Development and Training Intern at Michigan Department of Health & Human Services
MDHHS Child Welfare Unpaid Internship Application at Michigan Department of Health & Human Services
Connections Internship (Small Groups, Care, Guest Experience, Events) at Grace Church
Clinical Intern at Life Journey Psychological Services, PLLC
Youth Advocate at Sherwood Forest
Educator and Counselor Paid Internship at Camp Augusta
Child Development in Camp Counseling - Paid Internships Available at Camp Augusta
Educational Psychology as a Summer Camp Counselor - Paid Internship at Camp Augusta
Secondary Education Counselor - Paid Internship at Camp Augusta
Elementary Education Counselor - Paid Internship at Camp Augusta
Guest Services Internship at Camp Augusta
Environmental Education and Camp Counselor - Paid Internships Available at Camp Augusta
Educational Psychology in the Outdoor Summer Camp at Camp Augusta
Humanistic Psychology as a Camp Counselor - Paid Internship at Camp Augusta
Summer Camp Counselor with a Humanistic Approach - Paid Internship at Camp Augusta
Grant Writing Internship at HAVEN
Student Advocate at Oakland University
Student Intern at WAFAA - Women And Families Ascending Association
Crisis Counselor Internship at AmeriCorps
Human Resources Intern (Benefits, Wellness, Diversity & Inclusion) at INROADS
Human Resources Intern (Organizational Development) at INROADS
Human Resources Summer Intern (Paid) (Fort Worth, TX) 2025 at BNSF Railway
Creative Psychology Writing Intern at Medtech Startup/Business Analytics & Science Writing at SENS Psychology
Clinical Psychology & Med-Tech Start-up. Private Practice/Social Media Winter 2025 Intern at SENS Psychology
+ Show More
- Show Less
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

