URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/phd-psychology/

Doctor of Philosophy
Psychology
Our psychology Ph.D. program offers one-on-one mentoring and exceptional research training from nationally recognized scholars.
Oakland University’s doctoral degree in psychology provides unique opportunities to collaborate with well-known leaders in psychological research. You’ll get attentive, personalized guidance from prominent faculty who specialize in dynamic areas such as evolutionary psychology, comparative psychology, social-personality psychology, and behavioral health. Our Ph.D. in psychology puts heavy emphasis on direct empirical research, creating extensive opportunities for you to author papers and present at academic conferences. You’ll also develop superior writing, research design, data gathering, and analytical skills in Oakland’s psychology Ph.D. program. Whether you seek a career in academia, clinical psychology, education, or the private sector, our doctorate in psychology equips you with the hands-on experience and professional development to stand out in the job market.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University’s doctoral degree in psychology provides unique opportunities to collaborate with well-known leaders in psychological research. You’ll get attentive, personalized guidance from prominent faculty who specialize in dynamic areas such as evolutionary psychology, comparative psychology, social-personality psychology, and behavioral health. Our Ph.D. in psychology puts heavy emphasis on direct empirical research, creating extensive opportunities for you to author papers and present at academic conferences. You’ll also develop superior writing, research design, data gathering, and analytical skills in Oakland’s psychology Ph.D. program. Whether you seek a career in academia, clinical psychology, education, or the private sector, our doctorate in psychology equips you with the hands-on experience and professional development to stand out in the job market.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Ph.D. in Psychology: The Oakland University Advantage
Our exceptional faculty represent the greatest strength of Oakland’s psychology doctoral program. You’ll work closely with innovative, well-funded researchers who have national reputations.
Our Ph.D. in psychology excels for its:
Robust research experience.
Our doctorate in psychology puts heavy emphasis on first-hand research experience. You’ll conduct studies independently and in collaboration with fellow students and faculty, building a strong track record of journal publications and conference sessions.
Academic excellence.
The psychology doctorate at Oakland is built around three academic focus areas: social/personality psychology, evolutionary/comparative psychology, and behavioral health. You’ll develop specialized expertise that sets you apart in the job market and guides your development as a researcher.
Supportive relationships.
We have a small, close-knit psychology Ph.D. program that values collaboration over competition. You’ll build personal relationships that promote your academic and professional success.
Career preparation.
Graduates of our psychology Ph.D. program have an outstanding record in the job market. You’ll be well qualified for a variety of careers, including university faculty, clinical practice, consulting, and organizational behavior and leadership.
Institutional support.
Oakland’s Center for Evolutionary Psychological Science (CEPS) promotes excellence in the field of evolutionary psychology. The CEPS helps outstanding scholars obtain the funding, resources, community connections, and logistical support they need to conduct high-caliber, high-impact research.
What Can You Do With a Ph.D. in Psychology?
According to the American Psychological Association's Center for Workforce Studies, a psychology Ph.D. is more marketable than many other doctoral degrees. You’ll be proficient in writing, communication, research, relationship building, and other broadly transferable skills that have value in nearly every industry.
Our Ph.D. in psychology equips you for a wide range of professional roles, including:
University faculty
Clinical psychologist
Educator
Researcher
Organizational leader
Public policymaker
Psychology Ph.D. Curriculum
The Ph.D. in psychology requires 80 degrees of graduate coursework, including a doctoral research dissertation. All psychology Ph.D. candidates take 24 credits of foundational coursework in psychology and behavioral research methods, plus at least 24 credits in one of three concentration areas:
Evolutionary, Cognitive, and Comparative Psychology
Social-Personality Psychology
Behavioral Health
You’ll also complete at least 16 elective credits. The Ph.D. in psychology culminates in a faculty-guided dissertation based on your original research.
Psychology Ph.D. Resources
Academic Requirements
Department of Psychology
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Psychology Ph.D.
Not sure if the Ph.D. in Psychology is right for you? Check out these other graduate programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Doctor of Philosophy in Education in Educational Leadership
Masters of Social Work
Master of Science in Psychology
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

