URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/master-psychology/

Master of Science
Psychology
Our psychology master’s degree gives you an excellent foundation for Ph.D. studies or a career in counseling, research, education, and beyond.
The Master of Science in Psychology at Oakland University provides you with outstanding preparation for Ph.D. studies and/or advanced career opportunities. Our master’s in psychology gives you first-rate training from dynamic faculty who have national reputations in cutting-edge specialties such as behavioral health, evolutionary psychology, social-personality psychology, and comparative psychology. You’ll get personalized, one-on-one mentorship from leading innovators in our master’s degree in psychology, along with direct research experience that frequently culminates in journal publication and conference presentation. Our psychology master’s degree equips you with a well-rounded set of marketable skills, including excellence in writing, research, and data analysis. Whether you’re bound for the workforce or a Ph.D program, our master’s degree in psychology gives you a strong foundation for success.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
The Master of Science in Psychology at Oakland University provides you with outstanding preparation for Ph.D. studies and/or advanced career opportunities. Our master’s in psychology gives you first-rate training from dynamic faculty who have national reputations in cutting-edge specialties such as behavioral health, evolutionary psychology, social-personality psychology, and comparative psychology. You’ll get personalized, one-on-one mentorship from leading innovators in our master’s degree in psychology, along with direct research experience that frequently culminates in journal publication and conference presentation. Our psychology master’s degree equips you with a well-rounded set of marketable skills, including excellence in writing, research, and data analysis. Whether you’re bound for the workforce or a Ph.D program, our master’s degree in psychology gives you a strong foundation for success.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Master’s Degree in Psychology: The Oakland University Advantage
Students who choose Oakland’s psychology master’s program routinely cite the high caliber of faculty as a major attraction. Our psychology department includes multiple high-profile researchers in a range of academic subspecialties.
In addition, our
master’s in psychology
excels because it offers:
Personalized attention.
Faculty in our
psychology master’s program
excel not only as researchers but also as mentors. You’ll get outstanding career guidance from your professors, developing relationships that support your academic and professional development.
Robust research experience.
You’ll acquire extensive hands-on research training throughout the
pyschology master’s program
, working alongside the high-caliber investigators on Oakland’s faculty. The degree culminates in a master’s thesis or research project that showcases your skills in study design, data gathering, statistical analysis, writing, and oral presentation.
Career and academic preparation.
Upon completing our
psychology master’s degree
, you’ll be a highly competitive candidate in either the job market or the Ph.D. applicant pool. Depending on your professional objectives, you can tailor the degree to prepare for careers in education, research, clinical practice, organizational leadership, and other fields.
Rigorous academics.
Oakland’s
master of science in psychology
includes focus areas in social/personality
psychology
, evolutionary/comparative
psychology
, and behavioral health. Within these specialties, you can tailor your studies to build the subject-matter expertise that best fits your academic and career goals.
Tight-knit community.
You can get the best of both worlds in Oakland’s
psychology master’s program
: the top-notch training of a major research university, combined with the intimacy and collaborative culture of a smaller institution. You’ll build long-lasting relationships that support your career for years to come.
What Can You Do With a Master’s Degree in Psychology?
The American Psychological Association's Center for Workforce Studies has found that
psychology master’s degrees
are marketable across a broad range of industries. A
master’s in psychology
equips you with versatile skills such as writing, oral communication, emotional intelligence, quantitative analysis, and other talents that that have broad application in the workforce, and give you the option to continue to the Ph.D. level.
Our
psychology master’s degree
qualifies you for careers in many fields. Some examples include:
Counseling
Organizational psychology
Nonprofit leadership
Professional training and development
Education
Market research
Public policy
Master of Science in Psychology Curriculum
The
psychology master’s degree
requires 36 credits of graduate coursework, including a master’s thesis or graduate research project. Most students take two to three years to complete the
master’s degree in psychology
.
The program begins with 12 credits of core coursework, followed by 20 credits of electives that allow you to tailor your studies to your own interests. Our
psychology master’s degree
is organized around three academic focus areas:
Evolutionary, Cognitive, and Comparative Psychology
Social-Personality Psychology
Behavioral Health
The program culminates in an original, faculty-supervised research project.
Master’s in Psychology Resources
Academic Requirements
Department of Psychology
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Master’s Degree in Psychology
Not sure if the
Master of Science in Psychology
is right for you? Check out these other graduate degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Master of Social Work
Master of Organizational Leadership
Master in Clinical Mental Health Counseling
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

