URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/public-administration-and-public-policy/

Bachelor of Science
Public Administration and Public Policy
Build a career serving others, starting with the public policy and administration degree program at Oakland University.
Liberal arts degrees, including degrees in public policy, are especially valuable in the job market because they help you acquire a broad range of skills that employers covet. Our public administration and public policy major in the College of Arts and Sciences is no different. It combines diverse coursework with transferable job skills to provide you with a solid foundation for a successful career in public administration and policy. Prepare for your future in public service, nonprofit work, or government. With a bachelor’s degree in public policy, you can get an entry-level job right out of college or pursue a graduate degree first.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Liberal arts degrees, including degrees in public policy, are especially valuable in the job market because they help you acquire a broad range of skills that employers covet. Our public administration and public policy major in the College of Arts and Sciences is no different. It combines diverse coursework with transferable job skills to provide you with a solid foundation for a successful career in public administration and policy. Prepare for your future in public service, nonprofit work, or government. With a bachelor’s degree in public policy, you can get an entry-level job right out of college or pursue a graduate degree first.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Bachelor of Science in Public Administration and Policy Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland University’s public administration major will give you everything you need to begin your path to serving others.
This BS in public administration and policy degree program provides you with:
Work experience in the field.
The program internship director can help connect you with opportunities to explore public policy careers and jobs in public administration. Past public policy and public administration majors have worked with the City of Berkley, Oakland-Livingston Human Service Agency, the executive office in Macomb County, the American Red Cross, St. John Health System, and others.
Knowledgeable faculty.
At Oakland, our instructors are more than just teachers. They’re also mentors and role models, challenging you to become the best student and professional you can be. Throughout our bachelor’s degree in public administration and public policy program, you will learn and interact in small classes taught by experienced faculty — many of whom are nationally or internationally recognized experts in state and local politics, public policy analysis, court administration, and nonprofit management.
Accelerate your master’s degree.
If you’re planning to get your master’s in public administration, you may be interested in our
accelerated BS to MPA (or 4+1) Program
. This combined bachelor-master’s degree program allows you to graduate with a Master of Public Administration one calendar year after completing your bachelor’s degree in public administration and public policy.
Engaging extracurricular activities.
Join fellow public administration and public policy majors in Oakland’s chapter of Pi Alpha Alpha, the national honors society for public affairs and public administration. PAA offers you opportunities to network, socialize, and gain experience with jobs in public administration and public policy careers.
Career advising and guidance when you need it.
If you are unsure of your future public administration and public policy career options while attending Oakland, our faculty members and
Career Services
center will be an excellent resource for you. We also offer a
Public Affairs Careers Orientation course
that will help you explore a variety of public policy careers in public service, government, and more, as well as advanced degrees.
What Can You Do With a Degree in Public Administration and Policy?
This degree prepares you for a variety of professional paths. In addition to pursuing public policy careers and jobs in public administration, you can use our public policy and administration degree as a foundation for active citizenship, careers in public affairs, law school, advanced degrees in the social sciences, and more.
Through our public policy and administration degree program, you’ll develop excellent writing and critical thinking skills, which are valued by employers in nearly every industry. You’ll also gain technical skills in areas such as public budgeting, human resources, and policy analysis.
As a public administration and public policy major at Oakland, you will be equipped for graduate school or for jobs in public policy and administration such as:
Legislature
Executive Branch agencies
Community and nonprofit organizations
Urban planning
Health care administration
Court administration
Bachelor’s Degree in Public Administration and Public Policy: What You’ll Learn
Oakland University’s public administration and policy bachelor’s degree program combines a liberal arts curriculum with technical instruction. You’ll take a variety of courses under the political science and liberal arts umbrellas. This allows you to pursue personal interests within the public administration and policy major.
Courses such as these can also help you develop a deeper understanding about topics and pressing issues such as world politics, budgeting, and economics that are especially relevant for your generation and generations to come. These are just a few of the classes you may take:
The Research Process in Political Science
Public Budgeting
Public Sector Human Resource Management
Public Policy and Health Care
Bachelor of Science in Public Administration and Public Policy Program Resources
Major Requirements
Minor Requirements
Department of Political Science
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Degree in Public Administration and Public Policy
Not sure if a bachelor’s degree in public administration and public policy is the right path for you? Check out these other bachelor’s degree programs at Oakland and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Bachelor of Arts in Sociology
Bachelor of Arts in Criminal Justice
Bachelor of Science in Health Sciences
Bachelor of Science in Environmental Health and Safety
Current Public Administration and Public Policy Internships
Researcher at Vote Smart
Landscape Stewardship Corps Member at National Park Service
Summer Research Assistant – Energy & Environment Lab (2025) at University of Chicago
Lee Kum Sheung Center for Health and Happiness Summer Internship Program at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health
Climate Justice Fellowship at Community Climate Collaborative
American Cities Program Summer Graduate Intern at The Kresge Foundation
Paid Spring Internship, Office of Chief Investigator at New York State Office of the Attorney General
Paid Summer Internship for Undergrads w/Watertown Regional Office at New York State Office of the Attorney General
Privacy Intern at HP Inc.
DOE Scholars Program at Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education
Detroit Program Undergraduate Intern at The Kresge Foundation
Building Technologies Office Fellowship: Commercial Buildings Integration at Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education
Climate Action & Advocacy Virtual/Remote Internship at Seaside Sustainability, Inc.
Collective Rising Internship at Collective Power for Reproductive Justice
Undergrad Externship for Credit: Investigate Police Misconduct at New York State Office of the Attorney General
Intern - Admin Safety Specialist, Public Works at City of Minneapolis
Education Team Graduate Summer Intern at The Kresge Foundation
Public Works Equity Intern at City of Minneapolis
Paid, Undergrad Internship: Investigate Police Misconduct at New York State Office of the Attorney General
Science/Policy Externship for Credit w/Environmental Bureau at New York State Office of the Attorney General
2025 Families USA Spring Internship at Families USA
Intern Support Technician - Maritime Division at Texas Department of Transportation
Vendor Integrity Unit Intern at NYC Mayor's Office of Contract Services
CAUSE Leadership Academy (CLA) Internship at Center for Asian Americans United for Self Empowerment (CAUSE)
Transportation Planning Intern at TYLin
Intern Traffic Engineering Designer at TYLin
Transportation Planning Intern at TYLin
Transportation Planning Intern at TYLin
Transportation Engineering Designer Intern at TYLin
AIER Economic Research Internship - Summer 2025 at American Institute for Economic Research
Planning & Project Management Interns at City & County of San Francisco
Residential Construction Intern at Chaffee County Habitat for Humanity
Art Bridges Summer 2025 Internships at Art Bridges
Government and Public Affairs Intern at Micron Technology Inc.
Government and Public Affairs Intern at Micron Technology Inc.
Internship at Gingrich 360
2025 Allegheny County DHS Internship Program - Analytics, Technology & Planning at Allegheny County Department of Human Services
Teaching Assistant: Political Action & Public Policy (Summer 2025) at National Student Leadership Conference
Outreach and Mobilization Intern at EARTHDAY.ORG
Prevention Corps: The Hub CT at Catalyst CT
Home Help Macro Intern at Michigan Department of Health & Human Services
Healthcare Compliance Intern at Quartz Health Solutions, Inc.
Community Partners Program Policy Internships (Summer and Fall 2025) at MassHealth - A division of the Executive Office of Health and Human Services of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
Paid Zero Hunger Internship at The Congressional Hunger Center
Fall 2024 & Spring 2025 - Law and Policy Intern, Vera Louisiana at The Vera Institute of Justice
University Recruitment Summer Consultant Internship at Rios Partners
Legislative & Budget Intern at New York City Council
Communications Intern at New York City Council
(#JR-2403341) Legal Corporate Affairs Intern (Summer 2025) at GlobalFoundries
LGBTQ+ Victory Congressional Internship - Summer 2025 at LGBTQ Victory Institute
Grants & Contract Specialist at Resilience, Inc.
Graduate Public Service Intern (GPSI Program) at University of Illinois Springfield
Technology Reform Intern at Issue One
Opioid Abatement Funds Program Internship at City and County of Denver
Political Affairs Internship (UNPAID) at Borgen Project
Human Resources Virtual Remote Internship at Seaside Sustainability, Inc.
Climate Action & Advocacy Virtual/Remote Internship at Seaside Sustainability, Inc.
+ Show More
- Show Less
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

