URL: https://www.oakland.edu/shs/clinical-and-diagnostic-sciences/radiologic-technology/

Radiologic Technology
Within the
Department of Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences
, the Bachelor of Science in Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences with a specialization in Radiologic Technology (RAD) prepares you to integrate advanced radiographic techniques and positioning with applied knowledge of anatomy and physiology for the imaging of internal structures. As a radiologic technologist, you will be responsible for administering ionizing radiation to patients for diagnostic or research purposes.
The Bachelor of Science in Radiologic Technology is accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT). In 2016, the JRCERT conducted a site visit of the Oakland University Radiologic Technology Program and assigned the maximum 8-year accreditation award. The next site visit is scheduled for November, 2024. General program accreditation information and the current accreditation award letter can be found on the
Oakland University page of the JRCERT website
.
Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology | 20 North Wacker Drive, Suite 2850, Chicago, IL 60606-3182 | Telephone: (312) 704-5300 | Email:
[email protected]
CURRICULAR REQUIREMENTS
DEGREE PLAN
ADVISING
APPLY
General Program Information
Mission Statement
The Oakland University Radiologic Technology Program is dedicated to excellence in baccalaureate level radiography education. Throughout the clinical and didactic components, we will promote professionalism as well as competence and proficiency in current academic and technical skills. This is achieved by providing a program of instruction in the theory and ethical practice of Radiography, which will reflect the high standards of patient care expected by professionals in Radiologic Technology.
Radiologic Technology Program Graduate Goals and Student Learning Outcomes
1.  Students will be clinically competent.
Students will correctly perform radiographic exams.
Students will set proper exposure factors for all radiographic examinations.
Students will demonstrate excellent patient care skills.
2.  Students will demonstrate appropriate critical thinking.
Students will correctly assess patient and exam.
Students will successfully complete trauma radiography.
3.  Students will communicate effectively.
Students will use effective written communication.
Students will use effective verbal communication.
4.  Students will exhibit professional behavior.
Students will demonstrate professional clinical behaviors.
Students will demonstrate commitment to the radiology community.
Program Effectiveness Data
The following is the most current program effectiveness data. Our programmatic accreditation agency, the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT), defines and publishes this information. The information can be found directly on the
JRCERT
web page.
Credentialing Examination Pass Rate:
The number of students who pass, on the first attempt, the American Registry of Radiologic Technologists (ARRT) certification examination, compared with the number of graduates who take the examination within six months of graduation. The five-year average benchmark established by the JRCERT is 75%.
Year 1: 2019 - 16 of 16 = 100%
Year 2: 2020 - 15 of 15 = 100%
Year 3: 2021 - 13 of 13 = 100%
Year 4: 2022 - 10 of 10 = 100%
Year 5: 2023 - 13 of 13 = 100%
Oakland University 2019-2023 five-year average: 67 of 67 = 100%
Job Placement Rate:
The number of graduates employed in the radiologic sciences compared to the number of graduates actively seeking employment in the radiologic sciences within twelve months of graduating. *“Not actively seeking employment” includes graduates who fail to communicate employment status after multiple attempts, graduates unwilling to accept employment for relocation, salary, or scheduling reasons, graduates on active military duty or graduates who are continuing their education. *The five-year average benchmark established by the JRCERT is 75%.
Year 1: 2019 - 16 of 16 = 100%
Year 2: 2020 - 15 of 15 = 100%
Year 3: 2021 - 13 of 13 = 100%
Year 4: 2022 - 10 of 10 = 100%
Year 5: 2023 - 13 of 13 = 100%
Oakland University 2019-2023 five-year average: 67 of 67 = 100%
Program Completion Rate:
The number of students who complete the program within the stated program length. *The program specifies the entry point (e.g., required orientation date, final drop/add date, final date to drop with 100% tuition refund, official class roster date, etc.) used in calculating the program’s completion rate. When calculating the total number of students enrolled in the program (denominator), programs need not consider graduates who attrite due to nonacademic reasons such as: 1) financial, medical/mental health, or family reasons, 2) military deployment, 3) a change in major/course of study, and/or 4) other reasons an institution may classify as a nonacademic withdrawal. *The annual benchmark established by the program is 75%
Year 1: 2023 -
13 of 13 = 100%
Oakland University 2023 annual completion rate: 100%
Transfer of Credit
Transfer students should refer to the information and transfer student forms on the Registrar's website to see how courses taken at other colleges or universities can count toward general education requirements. Students interested in transferring to Oakland University should complete a transfer course review form.
Accreditation
Oakland University is accredited by the
Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools
(phone 312-263-0456).
In 2019, the Higher Learning Commission of the NCA conducted a comprehensive visit of Oakland University. The next Comprehensive Evaluation is scheduled for 2028-29.
The Oakland University Radiologic Technology Program is accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology.
Non-Discrimination
Oakland University, as an equal opportunity institution, is committed to compliance with federal and state laws prohibiting discrimination, including Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. It is the policy of Oakland University that there shall be no discrimination on the basis of race, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, height, weight, disability, color, religion, creed, national origin or ancestry, marital status, familial status, veteran status or other protected categories in employment, admissions, educational programs or activities. Inquiries may be addressed to Oakland University, Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, Oakland Center, Suite 150, 312 Meadow Brook Road, Rochester, Michigan 48309-4454; phone:
(248) 370-3496
.
Student Services
The Oakland University Radiologic Technology program offers several services available to all students.
Access to the libraries at Oakland University and
Corewell Health
.
Personal counseling services available through the OU Counseling Center, located in the Graham Health Center.
Free parking on university and hospital campuses.
Campus-wide recreation program.
Refund Policy
The refund policy for the Radiologic Technology program follows the university refund policy located in the university catalog. Students are eligible for a full refund of tuition within two weeks of the first day of the semester. Late payments are assessed a penalty as described in the university catalog. All university tuition policies apply to the Radiologic Technology program. For more information, visit the
Tuition and Refund Policy
.
Grievance Policy, Appeals
For Final Grading concerns, students must follow the
Oakland University Grade Appeal Procedure
.
APPEAL PROCEDURE – for all appeals other than final grading concerns.
An appeal may be initiated in situations of unresolved complaint or alleged inequity concerning a student, corrective actions, or violations/misinterpretation of policies/procedures. Complaints other than those stated above are brought to the attention of the Program Director or Clinical Coordinator and will be addressed promptly. The Appeal Procedure is designed to resolve such issues in a fair and consistent manner. Outside legal counsel is not permitted to accompany a student through the Appeal Procedure.
NOTE: A student who is in the process of appealing a dismissal decision will not be allowed to attend program related activities.
STEP 1 (Within Program)
The student must contact the Clinical Coordinator or Program Director in writing to request a review no later than 3 days following the incident prompting the appeal.
The Clinical Coordinator or Program Director will conduct the appropriate investigation of the complaint and return a decision within 5 days of receiving written request from student.
*If not satisfied with the Step 1 resolution, the student may proceed to Step 2.
STEP 2 (Within the Department)
Within three (3) days of receiving the decision from the Clinical Coordinator or Program Director, the student must contact the Department Chair - Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences (DC-CDS). The student must provide written explanation and documentation detailing the appeal. The student is responsible to include in writing all appropriate information in clear, concise and complete format to facilitate Step 2 review. The DC-CDS will confer with two (2) other CDS faculty, investigate the appeal and render a decision within five (5) days of receiving the written student appeal information.
*If not satisfied with the Step 2 resolution, the student may proceed to Step 3.
STEP 3 (External to the Program and Department)
Within 3 days of receiving the decision from the DC-CDS, the student must inform the DC-CDS of their intention to initiate Step 3. The DC-CDS will convene a panel of 3 non-CDS Health Sciences faculty to review the Step 3 appeal. The student is responsible to submit a summary of Steps 1 and 2 and all appropriate information in clear, concise and complete format to facilitate Step 3 review. The student will be informed of the Step 3 decision within 5 days of submitting the written Step 3 information.
The decision of the Step 3 process is the final step in the process and binding for all parties.
Documentation from Steps 1-3 will be returned to the program to be kept in a confidential program file.
NOTE – for appeals regarding the clinical practicum, a clinical representative will be included in all Steps.
Curriculum
The Radiologic Technology program is a full time program for admitted students. The program is 24 months in duration with either classes or clinical scheduled 5 days a week during Fall and Winter semesters, and 4 days a week during Summer semester. Students will spend 2 days each week in academic instruction at Oakland University during Fall and Winter semesters. One day of academic instruction is scheduled during Summer semester.
Students must be admitted to the Radiologic Technology program and have Radiologic Technology listed as their major in order to register for RAD courses. For a recommended year-by-year schedule of classes, students may consult the
degree plan
. For a complete description of courses, please review the Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences Program entry in the Undergraduate Catalog (see
Curricular Requirements
).
Didactic Education
The Oakland University Radiologic Technology Program uses a combination of traditional face-to-face in person instruction and virtual, hybrid learning. The majority of our courses are traditional, but several courses are scheduled as asynchronous online and/or hybrid formats. All students must complete courses as scheduled.
Students will also be required to attend regular laboratory courses for hands-on learning experiences during the fall and winter semesters at Corewell Health in Royal Oak on some academic instruction days. This will require students to commute off campus for utilization of the lab. On rare occasions, academic instruction may also be moved to a classroom at Corewell Health when necessary.
Clinical Education
The Oakland University Radiologic Technology program is affiliated with Corewell Health to provide the clinical education as required by the American Registry of Radiologic Technologists. Clinical education takes place 3 days each week (all semesters, for 24 months) in a variety of rotations at the Corewell Health locations in Royal Oak, Troy, Grosse Pointe, West Bloomfield, Lenox and Warren.  Additional clinical sites may be required.  Students spend time in a variety of locations within the radiology departments of these locations. Students are also expected to complete rotations on a variety of shifts (start and end times vary). Clinical schedules are determined by the Radiologic Technology Clinical Coordinator prior to the start of each semester, and are subject to change when necessary.
Clinical rotations include, but are not limited to: General radiography, surgical, gastrointestinal, portables, outpatient, pediatric, emergency, etc.
Specialty rotations include: Interventional Radiography, Computed Tomography, Magnetic Resonance Imaging, Sonography, and optional Mammography for all students.
While male students are allowed an experience in Mammography, such experience could be limited by individual patients. After program completion, male employment opportunities in Mammography remain limited throughout the Radiography profession.
Tuition, Text Books, Uniforms
Tuition rates are adjusted each year by Oakland University. Tuition is assessed based on the number of credit hours taken each semester. Students will complete 62 credit hours for the Radiologic Technology program.
Current tuition information may be found at
Student Financial Services
. Please be aware of the differential tuition rates specific to the School of Health Sciences.
Other costs:
Specific textbooks are required for each course. Students should expect to spend approximately $1,700 for program required textbooks.
Students are required to purchase scrub-type uniforms for participation in clinical. Uniforms and shoes will cost approximately $400 for the program.
Personalized radiographic side markers cost approximately $20-$40.
Students are required to carry personal healthcare insurance for the duration of the program.
Academic Calendar
The Radiologic Technology program follows the established calendar for Oakland University. The program does not require class nor clinical on observed school holidays and breaks. For Oakland University academic calendar, visit
Oakland University Calendar
.
The program begins in the fall semester each year. Students graduate after completion of the 24 month program and completion of all University requirements.
Grading Scale
A grade of 75% is required to pass each RAD course to continue in the RAD program.
95.0-100 = A
92.0-94.9 = A-
89.0-91.9 = B+
85.0-88.9 = B
82.0-84.9 = B-
79.0-81.9 = C+
75.0-78.9 = C
72.0-74.9 = C-
69.0-71.9 = D+
65.0-68.9 = D
Below 65 = F
Graduation Requirements
The following requirements must be completed:
Passing grade on the Senior Placement Exam.
Satisfactory completion of all RAD courses.
Satisfactory completion of all clinical competency requirements.
Completion of all make-up time.
Completion of all Oakland University degree requirements.
Experience-Based Learning
The OU Pledge
is our commitment to provide experience-based and hands-on learning through participation in programs, student and professional organizations, research, community engagement and more.
Possibilities include:
Clinical education and rotations through Corewell Health
Medical Imaging Science Society
Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences Society
Connection to the Michigan Society of Radiologic Technologists (MSRT)
Community Health Engagement and Empowerment Research (CHEER) Lab
ECLIPSE Leadership Initiative
Admission Information
Application Process
Students may apply for the Radiologic Technology program after completing the
CDS core curriculum
, usually as a sophomore. Application is made during the winter semester of the sophomore year for the September start date.
Currently, up to 20 students are accepted each year, which may vary based on clinical site availability. Acceptance into the program is competitive and based on Math/Science GPA, personal interview, letters of recommendation and score on the Medical Terminology Entrance Exam administered to interviewed candidates. Desirable candidates possess qualities and abilities in communication, computer literacy, leadership, multitasking, problem solving and critical thinking. Direct patient contact experience, volunteering with patients and advanced course work are also considered in the admissions process.
When applying to this program, all students must complete a graduation audit with their SHS academic adviser.
Application Instructions
Applications are accepted from October 15 to April 30 each year. These applicants are for the class beginning the following fall semester.
A completed application must include:
Completed
Application
form
Two (2) academic (course instructor)
letters of recommendation
and one (1) employer
letter of recommendation
. Please use the linked form, actual letters are not necessary.
Pre-graduation audit (completed with a School of Health Sciences adviser) (email to
[email protected]
)
*All grades from other institutions must be transferred to OU and are required for acceptance.  Pre-graduation audits are required by the application deadline.
Applicants accepted for interviews will be contacted by May 15.
Interviews will be completed by May 30.
Selection is based upon:
Prerequisite Science/Math GPA (BIO1200, BIO2100, BIO2101, BIO2600, PHY1080, PHY1090, and STA2220)
Letters of Recommendation
Interview scores
Medical Terminology Entrance Exam (administered to interviewed candidates)
Optional- patient care or radiology experience.
The Admissions Committee will make final determination of candidate’s status.
Applicants will be notified of their status by early June.
Late applications may be accepted if the class is not filled.
Based on course availability, requirements may be completed during the Summer semester prior to program start date in Fall semester; however, applicants may not be considered if they have more than two incomplete science/math courses by the end of the Winter semester prior to program start date.
*Application and recommendation form can also be found on the
OU Website -
Radiologic Technology
, under Resources. All admission policies subject to change based on clinical site policies and availability
Admission Policies
The Admissions Committee is responsible for reviewing application and interview materials, and selecting students for the program. Selection is competitive and the number of applicants varies from year to year.
If accepted, the student may be required to successfully complete the following at their own expense prior to the program orientation, as required by Corewell Health:
Criminal background and sexual offender check, as directed by the program.
Physical exam (including drug screen, urinalysis, blood testing, etc.).
Immunization records or titer results demonstrating immunity for each of the following: Tdap, rubeola, rubella, mumps, pertussis, varicella zoster, hepatitis B, annual flu vaccine (when available) and TB test.
CPR - American Heart Association BLS Provider or American Red Cross BLS Provider or BLS is accepted. A CPR class for accepted candidates may be available through OU School of Health Sciences.
Students enrolled in the program must document personal health care insurance coverage throughout the entire Radiologic Technology program.
Further program information is available upon acceptance.
Application Timeline
Application deadline: April 30
Interviews completed: May 30 (approx.)
Admissions Committee meeting: Early June
Accepted students are notified: Early June
Student health forms are due: July 15
Mandatory program orientation: Early to Mid-August (4 days)
Career Information
Job Outlook
The
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics
(BLS) estimates demand for radiologic technologists will increase by a total of 6% from 2022 to 2032.
Average Salary
According to BLS, radiologic technologists earned a median annual pay of $76,020 in 2023. There is an immediate demand for qualified radiologic technologists in settings such as hospitals, physician’s offices, and imaging clinics.
Consider this profession if you:
want to make a difference in the lives of others
enjoy subjects such as anatomy, biology, radiation safety, and physics
enjoy using computers to acquire and manipulate images
want to communicate with patients, doctors, nurses and other radiologic technologists
enjoy solving problems
want a hands-on practice in a clinical setting
interested in opportunities to advance within the professional world
CT, MRI & Mammography Courses
The Radiologic Technology program at Oakland University offers courses designed to expand on the existing knowledge of current ARRT registered imaging technologists in the areas of Computed Tomography (CT), Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), and Mammography, in affiliation with Corewell Health. Each course is approximately one semester (15-17 weeks) in length. The MRI course includes approximately 32 hours of clinical and one 3 hour class day per week. The CT and Mammography courses include approximately 24 hours of clinical and one 3 hour class day per week. Clinical hours take place in the morning and afternoon shifts at various Corewell Health clinical locations. Other clinical sites, locations and hours of attendance may be required. Clinical shifts vary based on the clinical rotation schedule, as assigned. With permission, additional clinical time may be allowed.
Extensive clinical participation is required throughout these courses to meet the ARRT credentialing requirements in the course modality. These advanced modality courses demand a high level of student professionalism, personal commitment and academic focus. Students that are unable to maintain this degree of performance will not be allowed to continue in the course.
The MRI course is offered for 7 credits, and the CT and Mammography courses are offered for 6 credits each. Tuition is assessed based on the School of Health Sciences upper division rates. Tuition rates are adjusted each year by the University. Please be aware of the differential tuition rates specific to the School of Health Sciences. Some employers might provide tuition reimbursement for these courses. Please check with your department administrator for details.
Students may apply for admission to the modality courses through the Radiologic Technology program application process. Applicants are required to hold current ARRT registration or become registered with the ARRT within two weeks after the modality course start date; and they must also hold current CPR (American Heart Association BLS Provider or American Red Cross BLS Provider or BLS is accepted). Applications are accepted year round and the courses may be scheduled any semester based on the number of applicants. Acceptance into a modality course is based on previous math and science grade point average, personal interview, and letters of recommendation.
For specific course offerings in each semester, contact:
Sara Rivard –
[email protected]
William Van Dyke –
[email protected]
Modality Course Applicant Information
Application Process
Applications are accepted year-round. Please submit all application materials to
[email protected]
.
A completed application must include:
Completed
Application
form
1 academic (course instructor)
letter of recommendation
and 1 employer
letter of recommendation
. Please use the linked form, actual letters are not necessary.
Official transcripts from all colleges and universities other than Oakland University
Personal Statement with resume
Proof of primary certification and current registration with ARRT or equivalent credentials.
*Applicants must be certified and registered in the ARRT appropriate supporting discipline. Newly graduated applicants must meet this requirement by the second course week.
Applicants accepted for interview will be contacted for specific interview date/time.
Interviews will be conducted during the semester before the course begins.
Selection is based upon:
Previous Radiologic Technology Program GPA
Letters of Recommendation
Interview scores
Prior work as a radiologic technologist
(if applicable, not required)
The Admissions Committee will make final determination of candidate’s status.
The course will be offered during any semester (Fall, Winter, Spring/Summer) when university enrollment requirements are met.
Late applications may be accepted if the course is not filled.
Please note that applicants will also fill out an application to Oakland University
after
acceptance to a course is determined.
*Application and recommendation form can also be found on the
OU Website- Radiologic Technology
, under Resources. All admission policies subject to change based on clinical site policies and availability.
Admission Policies
The Admissions Committee is responsible for reviewing application and interview materials, and selecting students for the course.
If accepted, the student must successfully complete the following at their own expense:
Criminal background and sexual offender check, as directed by the program.
Physical exam (including drug screen, urinalysis, blood testing, etc.).
Immunization record or titer results demonstrating immunity for each of the following: Tdap, rubeola, rubella, mumps, pertussis, varicella zoster, hepatitis B, annual flu vaccine (when available) and TB test.
CPR – ONLY American Heart Association BLS Provideris accepted. A CPR class for accepted candidates may be available through OU School of Health Sciences.
Students enrolled in the program must document personal health care insurance coverage throughout the entire course.
Application Timeline
Application deadlines:
June 1 for Fall semester
October 1 for Winter semester
February 1 for Summer semester
Interviews completed: 2-3 months prior to course start date
Accepted students are notified: 1-2 months prior to course start date
Student health forms are due: 1 month prior to course start date
Mandatory Program Orientation: about 1-2 weeks prior to course start date
Tuition, Textbooks, Uniforms
Tuition rates are adjusted each year by the University. The MRI course is offered for 7 credits and the CT and Mammography courses are offered for 6 credits each.
Current tuition information may be found at
Student Financial Services
.
Please be aware of the differential tuition rates specific to the School of Health Sciences.
Other required costs:
* ASRT Module Series specific to the modality. Students must purchase and submit modules as proof of structured education.
*Textbooks as required by the instructor.
* Students are required to wear royal blue scrub type uniforms for participation in clinical.
* Students are required to carry personal healthcare insurance for the duration of the course.
Technical Program Standards
Those persons wishing to enter, or those students who expect to continue in a Radiologic Technology Modality Course must be able to perform the Technical Performance Standards identified below. Oakland University reserves the right to require the applicant or student to physically demonstrate any or all of the following skills prior to acceptance into a Modality Course or while enrolled:
Use fine manual dexterity to manipulate radiographic and venipuncture equipment and other patient care apparatus.
Reach equipment up to a height of 75" with the aid of a step.
Assist or participate in a two-person lifting technique with a non-ambulatory or semi ambulatory patient, in transferring from a wheelchair or stretcher to a radiographic table, and then back to a wheelchair or stretcher.
Propel the wheelchair or stretcher in and out of radiographic room.
Observe any situation, which may be potentially hazardous to the patient or other personnel.
Listen and hear for indicative signs of a medical emergency: choking, shortness of breath, patient complaints of pain, etc.
Position the patient on the radiographic table in required positions for all procedures using tactile sense by palpating appropriate anatomic structures.
Push the mobile radiographic unit from the department to the patient room.
Mentally assess medical emergencies and respond quickly to summon qualified medical personnel.
Visually differentiate shades of black, gray and white on a radiographic image.
Verbally communicate with patients and staff to provide procedure information and patient instructions.
Perform clinical exams within established time frames and without additional resources or assistance.
Operate various computerized equipment.
Students who are not able to accept these technical standards should speak to the Radiologic Technology Program Director before proceeding with the Modality Course Application.
For more information, please contact Sara Rivard, Radiologic Technology program director, at
[email protected]
.
Resources
Application
Letter of Recommendation Form
American Society of Radiologic Technologists
Michigan Society of Radiologic Technologists
Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT)
Contact Us
Sara Rivard, M.A., RT(R) (CT)
Director and Special Instructor
Radiologic Technology
[email protected]
Academic Advising
3070 Human Health Building
[email protected]
(248) 370-2369
School of Health Sciences
Academic Advising
3070 Human Health Building
433 Meadow Brook Road
Rochester, MI 48309-4452
(location map)
(248) 370-2369
[email protected]
Dean's Office
Human Health Building
(248) 370-3562
[email protected]
School of Health Sciences
Academic Advising
3070 Human Health Building
433 Meadow Brook Road
Rochester, MI 48309-4452
(location map)
(248) 370-2369
Dean's Office
Human Health Building
(248) 370-3562
[email protected]

