URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/rn-to-bsn/

RN to BSN Degree
Our accredited RN to BSN offers first-rate quality in an affordable, 100 percent online format.
Oakland University’s online RN to BSN equips you to take your career to the next level. Designed for registered nurses, our RN to BSN program combines academic rigor with online convenience. You can complete the 32-credit RN to BSN program in as little as 12 months for less than $10,000, while deepening your knowledge of patient-centered care, evidence-based practice, information technology, and culturally competent care. You’ll graduate with a widely respected Oakland University nursing bachelor’s degree that qualifies you for professional advancement, leadership roles, and graduate nursing programs.
Get more information on
OU's Cost of Attendance
used to determine financial aid eligibility.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University’s online RN to BSN equips you to take your career to the next level. Designed for registered nurses, our RN to BSN program combines academic rigor with online convenience. You can complete the 32-credit RN to BSN program in as little as 12 months for less than $10,000, while deepening your knowledge of patient-centered care, evidence-based practice, information technology, and culturally competent care. You’ll graduate with a widely respected Oakland University nursing bachelor’s degree that qualifies you for professional advancement, leadership roles, and graduate nursing programs.
Get more information on
OU's Cost of Attendance
used to determine financial aid eligibility.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
RN to BSN Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
Our RN to BSN program stands out for its blend of academic quality with affordability, flexibility, and convenience. You’ll get the same rigorous instruction that applies to our in-person nursing bachelor’s degrees, while having access to the full resources of Oakland University’s highly respected School of Nursing.
Key benefits of our 100 percent online RN to BSN program include:
Exceptional value.
Our RN to BSN minimizes your investment while maximizing your career possibilities. As a fully online program, the RN to BSN won’t conflict with a full-time work schedule. We’ll award maximum transfer credit for your prior coursework from accredited colleges, leaving you with the shortest path to graduation. With an overall cost under $10,000, our online RN to BSN is one of the most accessible nursing programs in the Midwest.
Supportive, attentive faculty.
We assign full-time Oakland University faculty  to our online RN to BSN courses. Our interactive online platform enables you to build real relationships with RN to BSN faculty, getting personal, one-on-one attention.
Relevant, marketable skills.
You’ll build practical skills in our RN to BSN program that improve health outcomes and raise your standards of care. In addition to learning techniques that get proven results, you’ll develop proficiencies that have immense value in the job market.
National accreditation.
All of our nursing programs (including the online RN to BSN) are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE). You’ll be held to the same academic standards as our on-campus nursing students, while receiving the same high caliber of professional development.
What can you do with a RN to BSN degree?
Nursing Careers
The online RN to BSN degree completion program is designed to raise your career trajectory. Health care experts forecast an urgent shortage of leaders in the nursing profession, and the RN to BSN equips you to advance into supervisory and management roles, with the potential to continue your studies in a graduate nursing program.
Graduates of our online RN to BSN program work throughout the health care industry, in settings such as:
Hospitals
Physician’s offices
Schools and universities
Nursing homes
Community health clinics
Mental health facilities
Emergency rooms
Nonprofit health organizations
Health education centers
Long-term care facilities
RN to BSN: What You’ll Study
It takes one year on the full-time plan to complete the 32 nursing-specific credits required for the 100 percent online RN to BSN. Students on the part-time plan can finish the 32 credits in 20 months.
Curriculum is identical for the 12- and 20-month plans. Courses address subjects such as:
Nursing informatics
Community health promotion
Nursing leadership
Community nursing
Research basis of nursing
Health disparities
The program concludes with a capstone experience, which may involve research, supervised clinical work, community outreach, or another independent project.
RN to BSN Program Resources
Plan of Study
Teacher Development and Educational Studies Department
School of Nursing
Programs Related to the RN to BSN Program
Not sure if the RN to BSN Program is right for you? Check out these other degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Basic-BSN track (pre-licensure)
Accelerated Bachelor of Science in Nursing
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

