URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/Masters-Safety-Management/

Master of Science
Safety Management
Develop the analytical tools and skills to make sound health and safety decisions in the public domain, industry and business.
The Master of Science in Safety Management program at Oakland University is dedicated to addressing critical issues related to occupational safety, health and environmental concerns within workplaces. Developed in collaboration with Oakland University's School of Business Administration, this program equips you with the essential analytical tools and skills needed to make informed decisions regarding health and safety, whether in the public domain or the industry or business sectors.
Our occupational safety and health degree program strikes a balance between health and safety coursework, business administration modules, and practical applications through safety-focused case studies. This comprehensive program consists of two concentrations: a technical concentration designed for those looking to enter the field and a management concentration for those with a safety related bachelor’s degree seeking to advance their education and career. OU’s Master of Science in Safety Management is accredited by the American Board of Engineering and Technology.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
The Master of Science in Safety Management program at Oakland University is dedicated to addressing critical issues related to occupational safety, health and environmental concerns within workplaces. Developed in collaboration with Oakland University's School of Business Administration, this program equips you with the essential analytical tools and skills needed to make informed decisions regarding health and safety, whether in the public domain or the industry or business sectors.
Our occupational safety and health degree program strikes a balance between health and safety coursework, business administration modules, and practical applications through safety-focused case studies. This comprehensive program consists of two concentrations: a technical concentration designed for those looking to enter the field and a management concentration for those with a safety related bachelor’s degree seeking to advance their education and career. OU’s Master of Science in Safety Management is accredited by the American Board of Engineering and Technology.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Master of Science in Safety Management: The Oakland University Advantage
Our Master of Science in Safety Management program provides you with a unique advantage in the field of occupational safety, health and environmental management. In addition to technical and management concentration options to align with your interests and professional trajectory, our M.S. in Safety Management provides hands-on, career-focused education to prepare you for a diverse array of opportunities.
Highlights of OU’s Master of Science in Safety Management include:
Collaboration with the School of Business Administration:
Our occupational safety and health degree program is developed through our School of Health Sciences in collaboration with our School of Business Administration — a partnership that ensures a well-rounded education.
Balanced curriculum:
Our curriculum strikes a balance between health and safety coursework and business administration modules. This approach prepares you to make informed decisions regarding safety and health in various work settings.
Practical applications:
As an M.S. in Safety Management student, you’ll gain practical experience through safety-focused case studies, allowing you to apply your knowledge to real-world scenarios.
Flexibility:
The Master of Science in Safety Management degree program is delivered fully online at in-state rates for both residents of Michigan and non-resident students.
What Can You Do With an M.S. in Safety Management?
Graduates of our M.S. in Safety Management program are in high demand, attracting employers from all industries, nationally and internationally. While safety professionals with master’s degrees typically have greater earning potential, it’s important to note that salaries within the field vary based on specific roles.
The Safety Industry Salary Survey, conducted in collaboration between the American Society of Safety Professionals and the Board of Certified Safety Professionals, provides valuable insights into the compensation trends of approximately 10,000 occupational safety and health professionals.
Some of the many career opportunities for our Master of Science in Safety Management graduates include:
Compliance officer/manager
Construction manager
Corporate safety manager
Emergency management director
Environmental health and safety manager
Facilities manager
Health and safety engineer
Industrial hygienist
Loss control specialist
Maintenance Supervisor
Occupational health and safety specialist
Safety manager
Security manager
Transportation manager
Master of Science in Safety Management: What You’ll Learn
The Master of Science in Safety Management’s management concentration is designed for individuals who have earned a bachelor’s degree in environmental health and safety, occupational health and safety, or a related field. This option is suitable for recent college graduates and in-service safety professionals. Notably, completing this concentration allows you to earn an MBA in just one year after graduating with the MSSM. Courses for the management concentration include financial accounting, legal environment of business, organizational behavior and strategic human resource management.
The technical concentration of our occupational safety and health degree serves as a gateway into the field, emphasizing occupational health and safety in the workplace. This concentration includes coursework in fundamentals of occupational hygiene, construction safety, environmental standard and ergonomics. Prerequisites for the technical concentration include:
CHM 2010 – Intro to Organic and Biological Chemistry or equivalent
PHY 1200 – Physics of Everyday Life or equivalent
BIO 1002 – Human Biology or equivalent
EHS 2250 – EHS Training Methods
EHS 3380 – EHS Engineering and Technology
MIOSHA Training Institute Level 2 Safety and Health Management Systems Certificate
M.S. in Safety Management Resources
Academic Programs
Department of Public and Environmental Wellness
School of Health Sciences
Related Programs
Master of Business Administration
Master of Public Health
Graduate Certificate in Environmental Health and Safety Management
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

