URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/secondary-teacher-education/

Secondary Teacher Education Program (STEP)
Add value to your bachelor’s degree by earning Michigan secondary teacher certification.
Oakland University’s Secondary Teacher Education Program (STEP) lets you pair your academic passion with a marketable teaching credential. A fifth-year program for undergraduates in “teachable” majors such as math, history, English or science, our secondary teacher certification program equips you to work as a middle- or high-school instructor in the subject you love. You’ll get robust training from one of Southeast Michigan’s premier institutions for teacher education, acquiring practical skills that are always in high demand. Our secondary teacher education program lets you enjoy the best of both worlds—the freedom to major in whatever excites you, and the professional training to turn your passion into a teaching career.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University’s Secondary Teacher Education Program (STEP) lets you pair your academic passion with a marketable teaching credential. A fifth-year program for undergraduates in “teachable” majors such as math, history, English or science, our secondary teacher certification program equips you to work as a middle- or high-school instructor in the subject you love. You’ll get robust training from one of Southeast Michigan’s premier institutions for teacher education, acquiring practical skills that are always in high demand. Our secondary teacher education program lets you enjoy the best of both worlds—the freedom to major in whatever excites you, and the professional training to turn your passion into a teaching career.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Secondary Teacher Education Program: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland University has a long tradition of excellence in teacher education and training. Our graduates have held teaching jobs and achieved outstanding results in districts throughout Michigan, so employers actively recruit new hires from our teacher education program.
When you earn your
teacher certification
at Oakland, you benefit from:
High-quality classroom experience.
We have training relationships with districts throughout Southeast Michigan, so we can place you in a student-teaching setting that fits your strengths. You’ll get detailed supervision and one-on-one coaching from a veteran teacher, developing the confidence and competence to start your
teaching career
with confidence.
Supportive faculty.
Our
teacher education program
is led by classroom veterans who play a hands-on role in your training. They’re heavily engaged and highly supportive, offering personal mentorship and career guidance in addition to academic instruction.
Civic engagement.
Oakland trains
teachers
to influence the lives of young people academically, culturally, and socially. You’ll acquire the expertise to educate global citizens and communicate effectively with students from diverse social, economic, and demographic backgrounds.
Strong peer relationships.
You’ll belong to a close-knit community in our
teacher certification program
. Classmates tend to develop enduring friendships and continue to support each other as their
teaching careers
unfold.
Adaptable career options.
By pairing
teaching certification
with an undergraduate degree outside of education, you’ll have the versatility to explore a broad range of career opportunities. It’s a pure value-add, giving you the license to teach and a degree you can market in many other contexts.
What Can You Do With Secondary Teacher Certification?
Michigan teacher certification for secondary teachers must specify a “major” teaching area. For most students in Oakland’s Secondary Teacher Education Program, the teaching major corresponds to the undergraduate degree. Our teacher certification program enables you to get licensed as a:
Art teacher
Biology teacher
Chemistry teacher
Social studies teacher
Science teacher
English teacher
Mathematics teacher
Music teacher
Foreign language teacher
Secondary Teacher Education Program: What You’ll Study
You’ll take a required introduction course before applying for the program. Coursework for the teaching education program itself generally requires 40 credits, although this may vary for foreign language teachers.
You’ll complete five field experiences prior to your full semester of student teaching. Required courses address subjects that include:
Digital technologies
Educational psychology
Teaching reading
Special needs learners
Secondary Teacher Education Program Resources
Admissions requirements
Program Requirements
Teacher Development and Educational Studies Department
School of Education and Human Services
Programs Related to the Secondary Teacher Education Program
Not sure if the Secondary Teacher Education Program is right for you ? Check out these other degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Master of Arts in Teaching in Secondary Education
Bachelor of Science in Elementary Education
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

