URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/social-work/

Bachelor of Social Work
Social Work
Our social work degree equips you to make a difference in people’s lives.
When it comes to a bachelor of social work (or BSW), there’s no substitute for direct experience. Oakland University’s social work degree gets you off campus and into the community for hundreds of hours of field work. You’ll build a strong foundation for a social work career, acquiring practical skills and expertise related to mental health, child welfare, school counseling, gerontology, addiction recovery, and many other types of social work. With small class sizes and attentive faculty, our social work degree fosters supportive relationships and a culture of trust. You’ll gain maturity and confidence in our BSW program, earning a rigorous social work degree that equips you to help individuals, families, and whole communities improve their lives.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
When it comes to a bachelor of social work (or BSW), there’s no substitute for direct experience. Oakland University’s social work degree gets you off campus and into the community for hundreds of hours of field work. You’ll build a strong foundation for a social work career, acquiring practical skills and expertise related to mental health, child welfare, school counseling, gerontology, addiction recovery, and many other types of social work. With small class sizes and attentive faculty, our social work degree fosters supportive relationships and a culture of trust. You’ll gain maturity and confidence in our BSW program, earning a rigorous social work degree that equips you to help individuals, families, and whole communities improve their lives.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Social Work Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
Social work professionals in Southeast Michigan hold Oakland University’s bachelor of social work in high regard. We have a reputation for mature, well-prepared BSW graduates who can communicate effectively, solve problems collaboratively, and achieve measurable results. Agencies go out of their way to recruit our students for all types of social work internships and jobs.
Our social work degree stands out for its:
Robust field experience.
With more than 150 community partners, our social work degree can place you in internships that closely match your career interests. You’ll gain more than 400 hours of field experience by the time you finish the bachelor’s degree in social work, with two separate internships to diversify your experience.
“High-touch” approach.
Social work careers can be stressful, so our social work degree puts extra emphasis on self-care. You’ll develop coping mechanisms that protect you from burnout and increase your effectiveness. In addition, our BSW offers exceptional advising and counseling services that support your personal well-being and academic success.
Exceptional faculty.
Our bachelor of social work program is led by active practitioners who have years of professional experience. They are accessible and student-focused, so you’ll build strong relationships that support your academic progress and career goals.
Problem-solving approach.
Social workers help people confront complex challenges that don’t have easy solutions. We provide our BSW students with evidence-based tools and techniques that yield positive outcomes. You’ll become proficient at engaging diverse populations, collaborating with health professionals from other disciplines, analyzing data, writing evaluations, and planning culturally sensitive interventions.
What can you do with a social work degree?
Social Work Careers
After completing our BSW program, you’ll be qualified to explore a broad range of social work careers. BSW graduates work for many types of employers, including state and local government agencies, school districts, nonprofit organizations, health care providers, correctional facilities and courts, and family service organizations.
Social workers provide the bulk of mental health services in the United States, so the need is great and career opportunities are extremely broad. You may find jobs in areas such as:
Addiction counseling
Criminal justice
Homelessness
Mental health
Gerontology
Child advocacy
Family advocacy
Racial justice
Economic inequity
LGBTQ rights
Women’s rights
Social Work Degree: What You’ll Study
Prior to formal acceptance into the BSW program, you’ll take introductory courses in sociology, biology, psychology, and politics, along with an introductory social work course and a class on culture and human nature.
Core coursework in the social work degree includes classes in:
Research methods
Statistics
Social welfare policies
Human behavior and social environment
Social work practice
You’ll also take a diversity course focused on race, gender, or LGBTQ studies, and one or more electives in subjects such as:
Criminal justice
Sexuality
Race and ethnic relations
Family dynamics
Religion
Aging
Child welfare
Substance abuse
Juvenile justice
Bachelor of Social Work Degree Resources
Major requirements
Social Work B.S.W.
Department of Sociology, Anthropology, Social Work and Criminal Justice
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Bachelor of Social Work
Not sure if the
s
ocial work bachelor’s degree
is right for you? Check out these other undergraduate degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Bachelor of Arts in Sociology
Bachelor of Arts in Anthropology
Bachelor of Arts in Criminal Justice
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

