URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/sociology-ba/

Bachelor of Arts
Sociology
Gain a deeper understanding of the interplay between people and cultures as a sociology major.
Oakland University’s bachelor’s degree in sociology provides you with invaluable knowledge and insight about the social and cultural factors that shape our behavior. Not only will a sociology degree help you understand the world, but it’ll help you share that knowledge with others, too. Our sociology bachelor’s degree program is founded on principles of equity and social justice. From the classroom to the field, you’ll explore the intersections of power, privilege, and oppression while developing first-rate research and analytical skills. After completing the sociology degree, you’ll be well prepared for a successful career in social services, criminal justice, and beyond.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University’s bachelor’s degree in sociology provides you with invaluable knowledge and insight about the social and cultural factors that shape our behavior. Not only will a sociology degree help you understand the world, but it’ll help you share that knowledge with others, too. Our sociology bachelor’s degree program is founded on principles of equity and social justice. From the classroom to the field, you’ll explore the intersections of power, privilege, and oppression while developing first-rate research and analytical skills. After completing the sociology degree, you’ll be well prepared for a successful career in social services, criminal justice, and beyond.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Bachelor’s in Sociology: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland’s undergraduate sociology degree focuses on the development of critical thinking skills, familiarity with diverse cultural perspectives, the ability to conduct investigative research, and the aptitude for collaboration and dialogue.
Our
sociology degree
offers:
Internships and other hands-on learning opportunities.
The
sociology major
includes an internship course that allows you to gain workplace experience. You may also serve as a teaching apprentice, earning course credit while gaining experience in classroom instruction.
Framework for research — and application.
At Oakland, we provide the foundation and framework to help you understand how social institutions shape individuals’ lives. As a
sociology major
, you will work with faculty members to conduct original studies while training in research methods and statistical analysis. Then you’ll have plenty of opportunities to apply those skills in relevant, impactful ways.
Impressive faculty.
Oakland University’s
sociology degree
program offers small classes taught by experienced faculty. You’ll learn from accomplished, award-winning scholars who bring their expertise and innovation to the classroom, research labs, and the field.
An interdisciplinary approach.
Some of our
sociology degree
courses overlap with those for other majors and minors at Oakland University. Our sociology department works closely with social work, women and gender studies, LGBTQ+ studies, anthropology, religious studies, international studies, and other departments. Double majoring or minoring in one of these areas is a great way to increase the value of your
bachelor’s in sociology
.
Community through extracurricular activities.
Our
sociology majors
may be nominated for the honors society, participate in seminars, join student-led organizations, participate in Oakland’s Sociology Club, and more.
What Can You Do With a Sociology Degree?
A
sociology bachelor’s
degree can provide you with research skills and knowledge of human relationships you can apply to a number of
sociology careers
and work in other fields, too, including:
Criminal justice
Health and medicine
Law
Local government
Public administration
Human services
Urban planning
Bachelor’s Degree in Sociology: What You’ll Learn
As a
major in sociology
at Oakland University, you will study society and systematically examine the cultural and social factors that shape individual and group behavior.
Through our Core, Capstone, and elective courses for the
sociology bachelor’s
degree program, you will learn about the fundamental processes of human interaction and the forces of social inequality and social change.
You may choose undergraduate program courses that address relationships and interactions across gender, race, families, communities, medicine, religion, and more. These are just a few examples of our courses:
Queer Social Theory
The Sociology of Deviance
Racial and Ethnic Relations
Urban and Community Sociology
Sociology Bachelor’s
Program Resources
Major Requirements
Minor Requirements
Department of Sociology
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the
Sociology
Degree
Are you considering your options beyond a sociology degree? Here are some other undergraduate degree programs at Oakland that may interest you:
Bachelor of Arts in Anthropology
Bachelor of Arts in Public Administration and Public Policy
Bachelor of Arts in Women and Gender Studies
Bachelor of Arts in Communication
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

