URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/software-engineering-ms/

Master of Science
Software Engineering and Information Technology
Get the training and experience to accelerate your career in software engineering and information technology.
Our master’s degree in software engineering and information technology (SEIT) qualifies you for high-level jobs in software engineering and IT. You’ll acquire advanced skills that are in heavy demand in nearly every industry, positioning you to lead software engineering projects and manage IT teams. Our software engineering and IT master’s degree is built around practical, hands-on experience. You’ll work on campus and in professional settings with leading innovators in autonomous vehicles, machine learning, artificial intelligence, bioinformatics and other emerging sectors. Our software engineering and IT master’s degree moves you to the forefront of the discipline, with the expertise to help develop next-generation technologies.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Our master’s degree in software engineering and information technology (SEIT) qualifies you for high-level jobs in software engineering and IT. You’ll acquire advanced skills that are in heavy demand in nearly every industry, positioning you to lead software engineering projects and manage IT teams. Our software engineering and IT master’s degree is built around practical, hands-on experience. You’ll work on campus and in professional settings with leading innovators in autonomous vehicles, machine learning, artificial intelligence, bioinformatics and other emerging sectors. Our software engineering and IT master’s degree moves you to the forefront of the discipline, with the expertise to help develop next-generation technologies.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Software Engineering and Information Technology: The Oakland University Advantage
Our location in Southeast Michigan’s diverse, dynamic industrial complex creates an ideal environment for a master’s degree in software engineering and IT. You’ll have opportunities to collaborate with and learn from tech innovators in multiple sectors, from automotive to health care, manufacturing, energy, artificial intelligence and more.
In addition, our graduate
degree in software engineering and information
enables you to:
Prepare for leadership roles.
You’ll develop a big-picture perspective that equips you for supervisory and management jobs. In addition to cultivating advanced technical expertise, our
software engineering and IT master’s degree
helps you strengthen your organizational, decision-making and communication skills.
Engage in advanced research.
The master’s
degree in software engineering and IT
includes an optional research track, which you can use to prepare for doctoral studies or new professional opportunities. Oakland University has active research partnerships that are developing groundbreaking applications in cybersecurity, embedded systems, autonomous vehicles, biomedical devices and other technologies.
Work in world-class labs.
The School of Engineering and Computer Science maintains state-of-the-art labs outfitted with industry-caliber tools for
software engineering and information technology
. You can work in specialized facilities such as the Intelligent Ground Vehicle Laboratory, Chrysler Controls and Robotics Lab, Center for Robotics and Advanced Automation, Broadband Wireless Communication Lab and Center for Cybersecurity.
Build relationships with nationally recognized experts.
Oakland’s faculty and industry partners include technology pioneers at the forefront of the
software engineering and IT
profession. You’ll learn from and work alongside innovators who are moving the discipline forward.
Belong to a diverse community.
Oakland University’s faculty and students come from all over the world. That’s especially true in the School of Engineering and Computer Science. Our multicultural community mirrors the global workforce in
software engineering and information technology
.
What Can You Do With a Master’s Degree in Software Engineering and IT?
A master’s degree from Oakland University equips you to compete for the best
jobs in software engineering
and IT. Our graduates stand out in the job market for their professionalism, breadth of expertise and mature problem-solving skills. In addition, you’ll have first-hand experience with emerging technologies, putting you ahead of the curve in competition for specialized
software engineering jobs
.
Every industry relies on advanced information technology and robust software, so career opportunities in this field are extensive. Our master’s degree program prepares you for
IT and software engineering careers
in fast-growing industries such as:
Bioinformatics
Mobile applications
Autonomous vehicles
Artificial intelligence
Machine learning
Robotics
Visual computing
Master of Science in Software Engineering and IT: What You’ll Learn
The
Master of Science in Software Engineering and Information Technology
consists of 32 credits, with an optional master’s thesis. The program offers both a professional track and a research track. Within each track, you can choose to concentrate in either
software engineering
or
information technology
.
Regardless of which track and concentration you choose, you’ll complete a core sequence of courses in object-oriented analysis and design, cloud computing, database systems and project planning and maintenance. You’ll complete the degree in
software engineering and information technology
with electives chosen from within your area of concentration.
Sample course titles for electives include:
Mobile and Smartphone Application Development
Cloud Computing
Information Retrieval and Knowledge Discovery
Bioinformatics
E-Commerce and ERP
Information Security
Artificial Intelligence
Deep Learning and Applications
Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning
Software Verification and Testing
Software Prototyping and Validation
Software Engineering and IT Master’s Degree Program Resources
Degree Requirements
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
School of Engineering and Computer Science
Programs Related to the Master of Science in Software Engineering and IT
Not sure if the master’s degree in software engineering and IT is right for you ? Check out these other graduate degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Master of Science in Computer Science
Master of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering
Master of Science in Embedded Systems
Master of Science in Cybersecurity
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

