URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/spanish-language-and-literature/

Bachelor of Arts
Spanish Language and Literature
Our Spanish degree pairs academic rigor with practical, marketable professional development.
In today’s multicultural society, a Spanish degree can open the door to a wide range of career opportunities. Oakland University’s Bachelor of Arts in Spanish equips you with specialized skills that you can apply in business, health care, government, teaching, technology and many other sectors. In addition to building language fluency with a Spanish degree, you’ll study the history and traditions of Spanish-speaking cultures, while cultivating proficiency in writing, research, and critical analysis. You’ll also benefit from attentive faculty and flexible academic options, graduating with a bachelor’s degree in Spanish that can propel you to graduate school, a teaching career or many other professional goals.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
In today’s multicultural society, a Spanish degree can open the door to a wide range of career opportunities. Oakland University’s Bachelor of Arts in Spanish equips you with specialized skills that you can apply in business, health care, government, teaching, technology and many other sectors. In addition to building language fluency with a Spanish degree, you’ll study the history and traditions of Spanish-speaking cultures, while cultivating proficiency in writing, research, and critical analysis. You’ll also benefit from attentive faculty and flexible academic options, graduating with a bachelor’s degree in Spanish that can propel you to graduate school, a teaching career or many other professional goals.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Bachelor’s Degree in Spanish: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland’s Spanish degree combines rigorous academic study with practical education that prepares you for the workforce. You’ll have the freedom to explore many options, pursue independent projects and engage in self-directed study, tailoring the program to fit your particular interests.
Our
bachelor’s degree in Spanish
provides you with:
Career-oriented courses.
In addition to providing a classical background in the liberal arts, our
Spanish program
offers course options tailored to specific professional pathways. You can take classes that focus on
Spanish language
skills for careers in business, marketing, health care, translation, journalism and teaching.
Real-world experience.
Spanish majors
at Oakland University routinely connect with native Spanish-speaking communities in Southeast Michigan. You can tutor local students, provide translation for healthcare personnel and first responders, intern for global corporations, assist local nonprofits and government agencies, and find other outlets in the community to practice bilingual, multicultural interaction.
Personal faculty attention.
You’ll belong to a close-knit community in our
Spanish program
, with small classes and attentive instructors who are responsive to your needs. All
Spanish classes
are taught by senior faculty who can offer academic support, career advice and personal friendship along with classroom instruction.
Opportunities to study abroad.
Our
Spanish degree
includes diverse options for overseas travel, with opportunities to study in Spain, Latin America and other parts of the
Spanish
-speaking world. You may be able to pair study abroad with professional skill development
—
for example, by working in a healthcare clinic, translating a technical manual or teaching in a local school.
First-rate training for careers in teaching.
You have the option of pairing the
Spanish degree
with a fifth-year credential in secondary teaching, qualifying you for a
career as a Spanish teacher
. Oakland has a statewide reputation for excellence in educator preparation, with outstanding rates of job placement.
What Can You Do With a Bachelor’s Degree in Spanish?
According to a recent economic study, demand for bilingual workers has doubled in just the last five years. Employers in government, business, health care, entertainment, tourism, education, law, social services and other sectors constantly seek workers who speak Spanish fluently and understand Latin American culture and history. Oakland students often double
major in Spanish
and another discipline, entering the job market with specialized skills that employers value.
Our
Spanish degree
offers excellent preparation for graduate programs in Spanish that can put you on track for an academic career. Other professional opportunities you can pursue with a
Spanish degree
include:
International business
Middle-school and high-school teaching
Interpretation
Technical writing and translation
Foreign service and diplomacy
Community development
International tourism
Immigration and naturalization
Bachelor’s Degree in Spanish: What You’ll Learn
Core requirements for the
bachelor’s degree in Spanish
include three language courses: a grammar review, plus intermediate and advanced courses in Spanish conversation and writing. (Introductory-level language courses do not count toward the
Spanish major
.) You’ll also complete courses in Spanish literature, Spanish-American literature and European literature, plus one course in Spanish or Latin American civilization.
Electives make up the remainder of the
Spanish bachelor’s degree
, with at least two electives focused on literature. Sample electives include:
Business Spanish
Translation: English to Spanish
Cervantes
Modern and Contemporary
Spanish Literature
Spanish Language
and Culture for Health Care Professionals and First Responders
Advanced Spanish and Academic Service Learning
Field Experience in
Teaching Spanish
Independent Translation Project
Bachelor’s Degree in Spanish Program Resources
Major Requirements
Minor Requirements
Department of Modern Languages and Literatures
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Bachelor’s Degree in Spanish
Not sure if the
Spanish bachelor’s degree
is right for you ? Check out these other undergraduate degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Bachelor of Arts in International Relations
Latin American Language and Civilization
Bachelor of Arts in History
Bachelor of Arts in Journalism
Current Spanish Internships
Voice Recording Opportunity for Chinese Speakers! at Lionbridge
Freelance Arabic Interpreter (NYC Metro Area) at Accurate Communication
Work From Home Independent Representative at Primerica
Remote Vacation Planner at LEWHJ
Remote Booking Specialist at LEWHJ
Japanese-English Translator at Technical Language Services, Inc.
Adaptive Outdoor Recreation Internship at Breckenridge Outdoor Education Center (BOEC)
Educational Interpreter for the Deaf/Hard of Hearing at Muskegon Area Intermediate School District
Translator/Proofreader Remote Job at Future Student LLC
Text Collection Specialist for Native Spanish (US) Speakers at OneForma
Advanced Interpreter for Deaf and Hard of Hearing at Loudoun County VA Public Schools
NHQ: COMM - Spanish Translator / Proofreader Intern (Spring 2025) at The American Red Cross - National Headquarters
Market Executive, Acquisition Team, Americas at Trip.com Group
Sign Language Interpreter II - Special Education at Mesa Public Schools
Summer Program Leader in Italy at You Travel & Teach
Multilingual Desktop Publishing Specialist at JTG, inc.
EFL/ESL Teacher at Argo TEFL Abroad
Patient Recruitment Intern at Medpace, Inc.
Patient Travel Coordinator at Medpace, Inc.
Tour Guide (Adventure Park, Kayak, Zip Line, Segway) at Door County Adventure Center
Kayak Guide at Door County Adventure Center
Polish Metadata Specialist (Movies & TV Shows) in Austin, TX at Welocalize
Catalan Localization QA Tester at Welocalize
Sign Language Interpreter (Flexible-Hour/Year-Round) at State Center Community College District
Senior Sign Language Interpreter (Flexible-Hour/Year-Round) at State Center Community College District
Senior Sign Language Interpreter (Flexible-Hour/Full-Time) - Reedley College at State Center Community College District
Manga+Game Translator/Editor (Japanese) at MediBang TraDe
Manga+Game Translator/Editor (English) at MediBang TraDe
Full-time Faculty - Global Language and Cultural Studies at Bard Early Colleges / Bard High School Early College (Headquarters)
+ Show More
- Show Less
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

