URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/special-education-masters-degree-advance/

Graduate Certificate
Specific Learning Disability Certificate: Advanced
Gain specialized expertise and add value to your Michigan teaching certificate by earning a special education certificate online.
Advanced training for teaching in special education has never been more marketable. Oakland University’s Specific Learning Disability Certificate: Advanced equips you to fill the growing demand for Michigan special education teachers. Designed for individuals who currently have or are eligible to receive a Michigan teaching certificate, our SLD graduate program enables you to advance your career in a specialized educational niche. You’ll earn a special education certificate online, while gaining practical classroom training that prepares you to support students who have a specific learning disability. You’ll add value to your Michigan teaching certificate while raising your career trajectory, increasing your income potential, making a greater impact as an educator, and earning higher professional rewards.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Advanced training for teaching in special education has never been more marketable. Oakland University’s Specific Learning Disability Certificate: Advanced equips you to fill the growing demand for Michigan special education teachers. Designed for individuals who currently have or are eligible to receive a Michigan teaching certificate, our SLD graduate program enables you to advance your career in a specialized educational niche. You’ll earn a special education certificate online, while gaining practical classroom training that prepares you to support students who have a specific learning disability. You’ll add value to your Michigan teaching certificate while raising your career trajectory, increasing your income potential, making a greater impact as an educator, and earning higher professional rewards.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
SLD Special Education Certificate Online: The Oakland University Advantage
This special education certificate program prepares you to create and implement individualized lessons and instruction to meet the needs of students who have a specific learning disability. You’ll learn how to support students. counsel parents, and mentor colleagues who work with SLD students.
Our special education teaching certificate program stands out for its:
Excellent field work opportunities.
The culminating experience of your SLD certificate in teaching program is a minimum of 180 hours of supervised field time. While this practicum is required for educators who wish to have a Michigan teaching certificate in SLD, your time in the classroom will also put your teaching in special education to the test.
Faculty experts in specific learning disability.
Oakland’s online special education certificate in SLD was designed and is taught by individuals who have decades of classroom and education experience. These experts will guide you as you build upon your Michigan teaching certificate to add expertise in specific learning disability.
Rigorous training.
You’ll learn the most current evidence-based techniques in Oakland’s online SLD certificate program. Our curriculum incorporates proven teaching methods that yield outstanding outcomes for students who struggle with a specific learning disability.
Career connections.
Educators throughout Michigan recognize Oakland University as one of the state’s top sources of teaching talent. By earning your SLD credential at Oakland, you’ll add value to your Michigan teaching certificate and distinguish yourself in the job market.
Online classroom support.
Oakland provides online students with the same resources that are available to on-campus students. Throughout the SLD certificate in teaching program, you’ll benefit from academic support, career guidance, technical assistance, and more.
What Can You Do with an SLD Certificate Special Education?
Nearly half of all disabled children in the U.S. have been diagnosed with a Specific Learning Disability, according to the National Dissemination Center for Children with Disabilities. As a result, there’s very high demand for special education teachers, making an SLD teaching certificate in Michigan extremely valuable in the job market.
When you earn a special education certificate online from Oakland, you’ll be qualified for jobs with:
K-12 schools
Special education facilities
Community service agencies
Social service agencies
After-school enrichment programs
Special Education Certificate Online in Specific Learning Disability: What You’ll Learn
In our 20-credit-hour SLD certificate program, you’ll take the following courses related to specific learning disabilities:
Introduction to Specific Learning Disability
Inquiry-Based Literary Instruction
Language and Exceptional Children and Youth
Advanced Educational Procedures for Students with a Specific Learning Disability
The program’s online format provide you with the flexibility to balance coursework with part- or full-time employment. The program concludes with a 180-hour in-person practicum.
SLD Certificate Special Education Program Resources
Certificate Requirements
Department of Human Development and Child Studies
School of Education and Human Services
Programs Related to the Specific Learning Disability Certificate in Teaching Program
We offer several master’s degree and certificate programs to help you advance your career. If you’re not sure the SLD certificate is right for you, you might also consider one of these other programs in Oakland’s School of Education and Human Services:
Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) Certificate
Graduate Certificate in Autism Spectrum Disorder
Emotional Impairment Certificate (EI Endorsement)
Masters of Special Education: Specific Learning Disability Concentration
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

