URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/special-education-masters-degree-basic/

Graduate Certificate
Specific Learning Disability Certificate: Basic
Expand your skills and raise your career arc with a special education certificate focused on specific learning disability.
Oakland University’s online Specific Learning Disability Certificate: Basic puts you on the path to a career as a special education teacher. Designed for working educators who already hold a Michigan teaching license, this brand-new special education certificate program enables you to add a specific learning disability endorsement to your teaching certificate. You’ll acquire expertise that’s in very high demand, learning specialized classroom techniques along with advanced skills such as curriculum development and learning assessment. You can complete the specific learning disability certificate in as little as 18 months, graduating with marketable skills that increase your income potential and heighten your impact as an educator.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Oakland University’s online Specific Learning Disability Certificate: Basic puts you on the path to a career as a special education teacher. Designed for working educators who already hold a Michigan teaching license, this brand-new special education certificate program enables you to add a specific learning disability endorsement to your teaching certificate. You’ll acquire expertise that’s in very high demand, learning specialized classroom techniques along with advanced skills such as curriculum development and learning assessment. You can complete the specific learning disability certificate in as little as 18 months, graduating with marketable skills that increase your income potential and heighten your impact as an educator.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
SLD Certificate Special Education Endorsement: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland University’s reputation for excellence in teacher training adds unique value to our Specific Learning Disability: Basic certificate. You’ll earn a credential that’s respected by employers throughout the state, while gaining the confidence and hands-on training to exercise leadership as a special education teacher.
Our program stands out for its:
High-caliber field work opportunities.
Oakland’s School of Education and Human Services has longstanding relationships with Southeast Michigan’s top school districts. You’ll get 180 hours of supervised in-class training in our SLD special education certificate program, gaining hands-on experience and mentorship from seasoned special ed teachers.
Outstanding online faculty.
All courses in our online specific learning disability program are taught by the same exceptional professors who teach on Oakland’s campus. You’ll learn from recognized experts who excel in both research and classroom practice.
Emphasis on marketable skills.
We developed our online specific learning disability certificate with direct input from special education teachers and policy makers. You’ll develop expertise that meets the specific needs of employers.
Flexibility and convenience.
Our program’s online format makes it ideal for working teachers. You can earn a special education teaching certificate in Michigan while maintaining a full-time job.
Personalized support for online students.
Although you’ll complete most of the SLD special education certificate’s coursework online, you’ll have access to the same academic support, career guidance, and technical assistance as our on-campus students.
What Can You Do with a Special Education and SLD Teaching Certificate in Michigan?
According to the National Dissemination Center for Children with Disabilities, half of the special education student population has a specific learning disability. School districts face an ongoing shortage of educators who are qualified to serve these students, so teachers who hold certification in specific learning disability will continue to be in high demand.
The specific learning disability certificate program equips you for a wide variety of jobs, including:
Classroom teaching
Tutoring
Community service
Social service
Special education
After-school programming
Special Education and SLD Certificate in Teaching Program: What You’ll Learn
Our 32-credit-hour special education certificate in teaching program with SLD concentration will help you work with students of all abilities, particularly those with specific learning disabilities.
You’ll start your coursework with three special education classes—Assessment in Special Education, Legal Issues in Special Education, and Organization and Management of Instructional Behaviors and Environments. From there, you’ll take SLD-focused classes in:
Introduction to Specific Learning Disability
Inquiry-Based Literary Instruction
Language and Exceptional Children and Youth
Advanced Educational Procedures for Students with a Specific Learning Disability
Upon completion of your coursework, you’ll undertake 180 hours of practicum field experience. At the end of your program, you will have the knowledge and skills to succeed in special education, adding value to your teaching certificate in Michigan.
SLD Certificate Special Education Program Resources
Certificate Requirements
Department of Human Development and Child Studies
School of Education and Human Services
Programs Related to the Specific Learning Disability Certificate in Teaching Program
We offer several master’s degree and certificate programs to help you advance your career. If you’re not sure the SLD certificate is right for you, you might also consider:
Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) Certificate
Graduate Certificate in Autism Spectrum Disorder
Emotional Impairment Certificate (EI Endorsement)
Masters of Special Education: Specific Learning Disability Concentration
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

