URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/special-education-masters-degree-SLD/

Master of Education
Special Education: Specific Learning Disability Concentration
Boost your career by combining your special education master’s degree with a specific learning disability concentration.
Oakland University has a reputation as one of Michigan’s best providers of training for special education teachers. Our online Master of Education in Special Education with a concentration in specific learning disability (SLD) gives you a specialized, marketable credential to advance your teaching career. You’ll acquire highly sought expertise that equips you to achieve excellent outcomes for children with mild to moderate specific learning disabilities. Our CAEP-accredited online program combines rigorous coursework with exceptional practicum experiences, providing you with best-in-class training for special education teachers. You’ll graduate with the preparation you need to lead as an educator and maximize your value in the job market.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University has a reputation as one of Michigan’s best providers of training for special education teachers. Our online Master of Education in Special Education with a concentration in specific learning disability (SLD) gives you a specialized, marketable credential to advance your teaching career. You’ll acquire highly sought expertise that equips you to achieve excellent outcomes for children with mild to moderate specific learning disabilities. Our CAEP-accredited online program combines rigorous coursework with exceptional practicum experiences, providing you with best-in-class training for special education teachers. You’ll graduate with the preparation you need to lead as an educator and maximize your value in the job market.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Master of Education in Special Education with SLD Focus: The Oakland University Advantage
School districts throughout Michigan actively recruit special educators from Oakland University. Our special education master’s degree with SLD concentration provides you with hard-to-find expertise and a level of training for special education teachers that few Michigan universities can match.
Employers seek out graduates of Oakland’s special education master’s programs because we offer:
Superior field work opportunities.
Oakland works closely with top-tier Michigan school districts and highly accomplished leaders in special education. You’ll get hands-on training in an SLD classroom, receiving close guidance and mentorship.
Faculty who are leading experts.
You’ll learn from faculty who’ve conducted groundbreaking research and helped set the standards of training for special education teachers. Oakland education faculty offer career guidance and mentoring along with academic instruction, helping you maximize your personal and professional potential.
Specialized preparation for the classroom.
Our special education master’s degree program emphasizes evidence-based techniques that help you support learners with varying specific learning disabilities. You’ll learn to design curriculum, create assessments, appropriately integrate technology into the classroom, and utilize other outcome-oriented methods.
Personalized relationships.
Oakland’s special education faculty offer a high degree of one-on-one mentoring. You’ll get high-touch training in special education that’s tailored to your particular gifts and career objectives.
Comprehensive support for online students.
As a Master of Education in Special Education online student, you’ll work with the same faculty and enjoy the same resources as on-campus graduate students. We offer academic and financial aid, support, career development guidance, technical assistance, and more.
What Can You Do with a Special Education Master’s Degree?
Michigan faces a shortage of leaders who can advocate for students with specific learning disabilities. While school classrooms are an important destination for our Master of Education in Special Education graduates, our alumni are also routinely employed as:
Behavioral intervention specialists
Classroom teachers
Health care service managers
Instructional coordinators
Program managers
Resource specialists
Master’s of Education in Special Education Degree with SLD Focus: What You’ll Learn
Oakland University’s special education master’s degree with SLD concentration is designed to train special education professionals who do not have a teaching certificate. As you pursue one of Michigan’s best education master’s programs, you’ll complete coursework in general education methods while earning your SLD endorsement for classroom teaching.
The core master’s in special education curriculum includes courses such as Language and Exceptional Children and Youth, Organization and Management of Instructional Behaviors and Environments, and Legal Issues in Special Education. With an SLD concentration, you will also take:
Introduction to Specific Learning Disability
Inquiry-Based Literary Instruction
Advanced Educational Procedures for Students With a Specific Learning Disability
Practicum Field Experience: Specific Learning Disability
Master of Education in Special Education Program Resources
Program Requirements
Department of Human Development and Child Studies
School of Education and Human Services
Programs Related to the Master’s of Education in Special Education with SLD Concentration
Master of Education in Special Education with Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) concentration
Master of Education in Special Education with Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) concentration
Master of Education in Special Education with Emotional Impairment (EI) Concentration
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

