URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/graduate-certificate-statistical-methods/

Statistics Graduate Certificate in
Statistical Methods
Advance your industrial management expertise and career potential with the latest statistical tools and techniques.
Oakland University’s graduate statistics certificate provides industrial managers with hands-on training to enhance their expertise in the latest types of statistical methods. With our statistics certificate, you’ll gain sought-after skills to take on challenges in research, development and production. You’ll also be able to identify difficult industrial problems and communicate effectively with experienced statistical experts.
Unlike similar math certificate programs, our statistics graduate certificate is unique in that it combines a strong foundation in modern statistical methods with practical experience in data analysis. You’ll not only answer the question, “What are statistical methods?” but also learn how these methods can help you understand and improve the quality, efficiency and productivity of your organization.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University’s graduate statistics certificate provides industrial managers with hands-on training to enhance their expertise in the latest types of statistical methods. With our statistics certificate, you’ll gain sought-after skills to take on challenges in research, development and production. You’ll also be able to identify difficult industrial problems and communicate effectively with experienced statistical experts.
Unlike similar math certificate programs, our statistics graduate certificate is unique in that it combines a strong foundation in modern statistical methods with practical experience in data analysis. You’ll not only answer the question, “What are statistical methods?” but also learn how these methods can help you understand and improve the quality, efficiency and productivity of your organization.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Statistics Graduate Certificate: The Oakland University Advantage
The Department of Mathematics and Statistics at Oakland University is committed to equipping you with an upgraded skill set to propel your career forward. Our statistics certificate program provides the advanced mathematical and statistical tools you need to make informed decisions and solve complex problems in the industrial landscape.
Our statistics graduate certificate program also features:
Dedicated academic and career support.
Our statistical methods classes are taught by expert faculty with a wealth of experience in mathematics, statistics, data science and big data analytics — ensuring you receive a comprehensive and diverse learning experience. And with our small class sizes, you’ll always get the personal attention you deserve. In addition, we provide a wide range of career services for both students and graduates of our statistics certificate program.
Flexibility for working professionals.
Oakland’s statistics graduate certificate offers the flexibility you need to pursue your studies while continuing your current career. The program can be completed in 1–2 years and features hybrid and evening classes. You can also apply your certificate credits toward a master’s degree, providing an excellent pathway for further career advancement.
Ideal location for industry movers.
Our location in Auburn Hills and Rochester Hills, Michigan, between Flint and Detroit, provides numerous advantages. Many of our students and graduates work at major nearby companies such as General Motors, Ford and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles. The area also offers access to diverse cultural, recreational and career opportunities, making it an excellent location for anyone looking to expand their horizons.
Real-world training for real-world problems.
Our statistics certificate classes provide the hands-on training and experience you need to tackle real-world challenges. With our Graduate Certificate in Mathematics with a focus on statistical methods, you’ll also have access to state-of-the-art facilities and the latest statistical software to ensure you’re well-equipped to meet the demands of today’s data-driven industries.
What Can You Do With a Statistics Certificate?
Students in our statistics graduate certificate program have gone on to successful careers in a variety of fields, including industrial management. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the average industrial production manager salary is $103,150 per year. Specialized training in areas such as statistical methods opens doors to even more potential for career earnings and growth. Career opportunities include:
Data analyst
Industrial production manager
Operations research analyst
Quality assurance manager
Quality control engineer
Research/intelligence analyst
Statistical consultant
Statistics Graduate Certificate: What You’ll Learn
Oakland’s statistics graduate certificate requires at least five courses, totaling 20 credits. You have the option of applying 15 credits (all but STA 5001) toward a master’s degree in applied statistics. The statistics certificate curriculum includes three required courses, along with electives covering several types of statistical methods, data analysis, processes and more. Coursework includes:
STA 5001 – Statistical Methods in Research and Production (4 credits)
STA 5002 – Applied Linear Models I (4 credits)
STA 5003 – Applied Linear Models II (4 credits)
8 additional credits chosen from STA courses numbered 5004 or higher
Statistics Certificate Program Resources
Graduate Certificate Requirements
Department for Mathematics and Statistics
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Statistics Certificate
Not sure if our statistics graduate certificate is right for you ? Check out these other math degree programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Master of Arts in Math
Master of Science in Applied Statistics
Master of Science in Industrial Applied Math
Ph.D. in Applied Mathematics, Applied Statistics Specialization
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

