URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/phd-systems-engineering

Doctor of Philosophy
Systems Engineering
Develop in-depth knowledge of engineering systems for successful careers in research, industry and academia.
Oakland University’s Doctor of Philosophy in Systems Engineering offers a comprehensive and multidisciplinary approach to equip you with the advanced skills and knowledge necessary to excel in industrial research, governmental agencies, academia and beyond.
Through our systems engineering degree program, you’ll immerse yourself in deep exploration of the interdisciplinary nature of the field of engineering. From robotics and electronics to communication networks, mechanics, manufacturing processes, and artificial intelligence, you’ll examine the interrelatedness of individual elements and their influence on entire systems. This perspective is integral to the analysis, modeling and synthesis of complex engineering systems.
In addition to this systems approach, our Doctor of Philosophy in Systems Engineering emphasizes a deep understanding of the fundamental physical principles and concepts specific to the system under study. This knowledge ensures that your research remains not only academically sound but also sensitive and relevant to practical applications.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University’s Doctor of Philosophy in Systems Engineering offers a comprehensive and multidisciplinary approach to equip you with the advanced skills and knowledge necessary to excel in industrial research, governmental agencies, academia and beyond.
Through our systems engineering degree program, you’ll immerse yourself in deep exploration of the interdisciplinary nature of the field of engineering. From robotics and electronics to communication networks, mechanics, manufacturing processes, and artificial intelligence, you’ll examine the interrelatedness of individual elements and their influence on entire systems. This perspective is integral to the analysis, modeling and synthesis of complex engineering systems.
In addition to this systems approach, our Doctor of Philosophy in Systems Engineering emphasizes a deep understanding of the fundamental physical principles and concepts specific to the system under study. This knowledge ensures that your research remains not only academically sound but also sensitive and relevant to practical applications.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Doctor of Philosophy in Systems Engineering: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland University’s Doctor of Philosophy in Systems Engineering is truly multidisciplinary, drawing its strength and resources from the entire faculty of the School of Engineering and Computer Science. Our engineering degree program covers a wide spectrum of topics within the field of engineering, providing you with in-depth knowledge and expertise to tackle complex, real-world challenges.
Highlights of our Doctor of Philosophy in Systems Engineering include:
Specialized tracks:
Tailor your systems engineering degree program to your background and research interests with specialized tracks in computer systems, control engineering, electrical engineering, industrial engineering, manufacturing processes or mechanical engineering systems.
Flexible learning:
Our engineering degree program allows part-time study, making it convenient for working professionals. You can also attend evening courses while continuing your full-time job. As you progress, you’ll have the opportunity to immerse yourself fully in your studies.
Diverse faculty:
As an OU engineering student, you’ll benefit from the collective expertise of our diverse School of Engineering and Computer Science faculty, ensuring a holistic and well-rounded educational experience.
What Can You Do With a Systems Engineering Degree?
Systems engineers are in high demand, and graduates with Ph.D.s are particularly sought-after for their advanced skills and knowledge. With our systems engineering degree, you’ll be well-prepared for success in a wide range of areas, including:
Industry:
Systems engineers in industry work on the design, development and deployment of complex systems, such as aircraft, spacecraft, telecommunications networks and health care systems. They play a critical role in ensuring that these systems are reliable, efficient and cost-effective.
Research:
Systems engineers in research work on developing new and innovative systems engineering methods and tools. They also conduct research on the application of systems engineering to specific problems in areas such as transportation, energy and health care.
Academia:
Systems engineers in academia teach and mentor students in the field of engineering. They also conduct research and publish papers in scholarly journals.
Entrepreneurship and consulting:
Systems engineers with Ph.D.s are often well-positioned to start their own businesses or to work as consultants. They can use their expertise to help companies solve complex systems engineering challenges.
No matter what career path you choose, our systems engineering degree program will give you the knowledge, skills and experience to make a significant impact in the field of engineering.
Doctor of Philosophy in Systems Engineering: What You’ll Learn
Our Doctor of Philosophy in Systems Engineering is awarded upon the successful completion of 80 credits in an approved program of study, including 56 credits of coursework beyond the bachelor’s degree and a minimum of 24 credits of dissertation research. Our curriculum is designed to provide the necessary knowledge to apply a systems approach to problem-solving, with specialized tracks for continuous and discrete systems.
Our systems engineering degree program has two major components:
Systems concepts:
The systems concepts component of the program provides engineering students with the necessary knowledge to apply a systems approach to problem-solving. Courses in this area include signal and linear systems analysis, continuum mechanics, and mathematical analysis for engineers.
Discipline-specific options:
Once engineering students have established a foundation in systems concepts, they will select a discipline-specific option to focus their research interests. Current discipline-specific options include robotics, dynamic systems, microprocessors, manufacturing systems, supply chain management, data analytics, software engineering and much more. Students are required to concentrate on at least two of these areas within their chosen option.
In addition to coursework, all Ph.D. engineering students must conduct independent research. This research is directed and approved by the student’s advisory committee. The goal of the research is to make a significant contribution to the field of engineering.
Systems Engineering Degree Resources
Academic Requirements
School of Engineering and Computer Science
Related Programs
Not sure if the Doctor of Philosophy in Systems Engineering is right for you? Check out these other engineering doctoral programs at Oakland and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Computer Science and Informatics
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

