URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/master-arts-teaching-reading/

Master of Arts
Teaching in Reading and Language Arts
Get a focused professional education from a national leader in reading and language arts instruction.
Reading proficiency correlates closely with overall educational achievement, so reading specialists can strongly influence student performance. Oakland University’s Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) in Reading and Language Arts offers the training you need to enter this high-impact niche. Designed for certified teachers and other professionals who hold a bachelor’s degree or higher, our CAEP-accredited reading master’s degree provides you with focused expertise and the opportunity to earn a Michigan teaching endorsement. You’ll acquire practical skills you can apply as a classroom teacher or reading specialist, with the ability to promote college readiness and reduce educational inequities.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Reading proficiency correlates closely with overall educational achievement, so reading specialists can strongly influence student performance. Oakland University’s Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) in Reading and Language Arts offers the training you need to enter this high-impact niche. Designed for certified teachers and other professionals who hold a bachelor’s degree or higher, our CAEP-accredited reading master’s degree provides you with focused expertise and the opportunity to earn a Michigan teaching endorsement. You’ll acquire practical skills you can apply as a classroom teacher or reading specialist, with the ability to promote college readiness and reduce educational inequities.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Reading and Language Arts Master’s Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland University is one of Michigan’s leading centers for reading and literacy instruction. We offer the nation’s only reading education graduate course in which each session is taught by a different author or illustrator of literature for school-age readers.
Accredited by the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation (CAEP), our master’s degree in reading and language arts provides:
Exceptional outcomes.
Our graduates perennially exceed the state average on Michigan’s reading specialist certification exam. Depending on your course selection, you can qualify for Michigan endorsement as a reading specialist (BR), reading teacher (BT), or language arts teacher (BX).
Hands-on training.
You can work directly with students who are struggling readers and writers during Oakland’s renowned summer Reading Clinics. These hands-on opportunities enable you to administer diagnostic tests, conduct assessments, and analyze individual students’ strengths, needs, and reading levels.
Nationally renowned faculty.
Oakland’s reading and language arts master’s program is led by some of the leading researchers and practitioners in the field. All of our instructors hold doctorates in reading, language arts or related areas, ensuring that you learn the most up-to-date theories and evidence-based practices in reading instruction.
Research opportunities.
You have the option to conduct independent research at the conclusion of the reading and language arts master’s program. Working closely with a faculty expert, you’ll design and implement an original study and write up the findings.
Commitment to educational equity.
Oakland’s School of Education and Human Services puts strong emphasis on inclusive policies and practices. You’ll gain theoretical expertise and practical skills to teach reading effectively to students from diverse backgrounds.
What Can You Do With a Master of Arts in Teaching in Reading and Language Arts?
The MAT in reading in language arts primarily serves classroom teachers whose responsibilities include writing and reading instruction. You’ll gain preparation to teach reading effectively in groups of any size, from one-on-one instruction to classes of 40 or more.
Graduates of our reading and language arts master’s program have applied the degree in areas such as:
Elementary education
Secondary education
Reading instruction
Literacy assessment
Language arts instruction
Instructional coaching
Master of Arts in Teaching in Reading and Language Arts: What You’ll Study
The teaching master’s degree in reading and language arts requires 32 credits. It includes an introductory course and core courses in teaching writing, literacy assessment, and literacy instruction. You’ll also choose two electives, plus one of the following courses in literature:
The Author’s and Illustrator’s Art and Craft
Foundations of Literature for Children and Young Adults
Adolescent Literature in Middle Schools, Junior and Senior High Schools
Literature for the Young Child
To complete the program, you have the option of writing a master’s paper based on original research or applied classroom practice. You may also choose two additional electives in lieu of the research paper.
Master of Arts in Teaching in Reading and Language Arts Program Resources
Admissions requirements
Program Requirements
Department of Reading and Language Arts
School of Education and Human Services
Programs Related to the Master of Arts in Teaching in Reading and Language Arts
Not sure if the Master of Arts in Teaching in Reading and Language Arts is right for you ? Check out these other graduate programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Post-Master’s Certificate in Reading
Post-Master’s Certificate in Language Arts
Post-Master’s Certificate in Literature
Master of Arts in Teaching in Elementary Education
Master of Arts in Teaching in Secondary Education
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

