URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/teacher-leadership/

Master of Education
Teacher Leadership
We offer the only online master’s degree in Michigan that qualifies you for the Michigan Advanced Professional Educator designation.
Oakland University’s Master of Education in Teacher Leadership was the first in Michigan to be approved for Advanced Professional designation. Beginning in September 2021, we will offer the state’s first online master of education degree that makes you eligible for Advanced Professional Educator designation. With online coursework that you can complete on a flexible schedule, our master’s in teacher leadership lets you keep working while you earn your degree. You’ll gain practical skills you can use immediately in your current classroom, while building the confidence and competencies to influence colleagues and bring about change as a teacher leader.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University’s Master of Education in Teacher Leadership was the first in Michigan to be approved for Advanced Professional designation. Beginning in September 2021, we will offer the state’s first online master of education degree that makes you eligible for Advanced Professional Educator designation. With online coursework that you can complete on a flexible schedule, our master’s in teacher leadership lets you keep working while you earn your degree. You’ll gain practical skills you can use immediately in your current classroom, while building the confidence and competencies to influence colleagues and bring about change as a teacher leader.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Teacher Leadership Master’s Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
Widely recognized as a model of excellence in teacher education, Oakland University’s School of Education and Human Services has trained multiple generations of Michigan teacher leaders. Our online teacher leadership master’s degree provides a convenient, affordable pathway to the state’s highest level of teacher certification.
You’ll benefit from:
Highly engaged faculty.
Our online master’s degree in teacher leadership uses a high-touch digital platform that supports robust faculty interaction and mentorship. You’ll receive one-on-one coaching, detailed feedback and personalized support from established experts.
Practical, marketable skills.
You’ll learn evidence-based teaching techniques that have been shown to improve student outcomes. In addition, our teacher leadership program equips you for curriculum leadership, instructional coaching, new-teacher mentorship, department leadership, and other educational leadership roles that increase your salary potential and your professional impact.
Personalized coursework.
We designed our online master’s in teacher leadership with flexible curriculum that you can adapt to the needs of your own students and school culture. The program includes an action research project that you can conduct in your own classroom, drawing evidence-based conclusions that directly support your success.
Focus on equity and social justice.
Educational leaders across Michigan seek culturally competent teachers who can work effectively with diverse student populations. Oakland’s teacher leadership master’s program includes dedicated coursework related to socioeconomic inequity, systemic inequity and cultural awareness.
What Can You Do With a Master of Education in Teacher Leadership?
Our teacher leadership master’s degree is designed for educators who are committed to remaining in the classroom and wish to achieve excellence. In addition to attaining Advanced Professional Educator Designation (the highest status available in the state of Michigan), our master’s in teacher leadership qualifies you to:
Train and mentor new teachers
Collaborate on school policies with administrators and other education leaders
Lead professional learning
Develop curriculum
Master’s Degree in Teacher Leadership: What You’ll Study
The teacher leadership master’s degree consists of 10 courses totaling 30 credits, which concludes with the design and launch of a transformational change project. Selected course titles include:
Collaborative Leadership
Teacher Leader as Change Agent for Equitable Schools
Action Research in Your Classroom
Teacher Leader as Collaborative Practitioner
Master of Education in Teacher Leadership: Program Resources
Admission requirements
Program Requirements
Department of Organizational Leadership
School of Education and Human Services
Programs Related to the Teacher Leadership Master’s Degree
Not sure if the Master of Education in Teacher Leadership is right for you ? Check out these other graduate degree programs at Oakland, and contact the graduate admissions team to discuss your options.
Education Specialist in Leadership
Master of Education in Educational Leadership
Doctor of Philosophy in Educational Leadership
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

