URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/grad-cert-teaching-learning-rehab-professionals/

Graduate Certificate
Teaching and Learning for Health Science Professionals
Share your passion for physical therapy and wellness with other health science professionals as an inspiring teacher.
Advance your career as a physical therapist and become a teacher with Oakland University’s Graduate Certificate in Teaching and Learning for Health Science Professionals. We’ve designed a rewarding and rigorous physical therapy program for rehabilitation professionals like you to learn the latest principles of teaching and learning and how to design educational materials that engage and inform students.
Whether you’re interested in going into academia or opening your own practice, the skills you’ll accrue in our Graduate Certificate in Teaching and Learning for Health Science Professionals,  will prepare you to instruct and guide your students to deliver the highest quality care possible. We combine lessons in teaching methodology with hands-on training experience to ensure that you’re ready to step into your own class and lead others starting on day one of your physical therapy program.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Advance your career as a physical therapist and become a teacher with Oakland University’s Graduate Certificate in Teaching and Learning for Health Science Professionals. We’ve designed a rewarding and rigorous physical therapy program for rehabilitation professionals like you to learn the latest principles of teaching and learning and how to design educational materials that engage and inform students.
Whether you’re interested in going into academia or opening your own practice, the skills you’ll accrue in our Graduate Certificate in Teaching and Learning for Health Science Professionals,  will prepare you to instruct and guide your students to deliver the highest quality care possible. We combine lessons in teaching methodology with hands-on training experience to ensure that you’re ready to step into your own class and lead others starting on day one of your physical therapy program.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Graduate Certificate in Teaching and Learning for Health Science Professionals: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland University’s Teaching and Learning for Health Science Professionals, Graduate Certificate provides you with an exceptional educational experience emphasizing community and professionalism — centered around the most current teaching methodology in physical therapy and rehabilitation.
Unique features that you’ll benefit from as a rehabilitation professional in our graduate certificate program include:
Expert guidance:
We offer small class sizes in our graduate certificate program that will give you many chances to work closely with our highly experienced faculty mentors. Through decades of experience as educators and practitioners, they’ve each created their own effective teaching methodology that they pass onto their students to prepare them to lead others.
Personalized advising:
Rehabilitation professionals in our graduate certificate program always have the support of our academic advisers — from before orientation day to well beyond graduation day. After you’re accepted into the physical therapy program, you will be assigned a faculty adviser who can help you create a schedule, plan for classes and stay successful, both academically and professionally.
Community engagement:
OU’s School of Health Sciences is dedicated to improving the lives of individuals throughout our communities. Through research and outreach, we’re removing the many sociocultural and logistical barriers that can keep our community members from being healthy and safe. As a rehabilitation professional at OU, you can participate in our outreach programs to improve community health outcomes.
What Can You Do With a Graduate Certificate in Teaching and Learning for Health Science Professionals?
According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, job opportunities for physical therapists are predicted to grow up to 15% by 2032 — much faster than average for all other occupations. This means that there will be many new positions that need to be filled by skilled and caring physical therapists.
As a rehabilitation professional with a graduate certificate in teaching and learning, you can lead physical therapy programs to train these future caregivers to fill these roles and provide the best care possible for patients.
If you’re interested in teaching at the college level or participating in large-scale research at a university, OU has you covered. All of the required courses that comprise our graduate certificate can be applied to the Ph.D. in human movement science. This can save you money and time as you continue your education in a doctoral physical therapy program.
With the expertise in principles of teaching and learning that you’ll gain at OU, you’ll be prepared for a wide range of exciting career roles, from education to leading your own practice. Other roles that you could pursue include:
Educational consultant
Hospital educator
Leader of rehabilitation therapies
Top Courses for the Graduate Certificate in Teaching and Learning for Health Science Professionals
We’ve designed a comprehensive curriculum that will help you build the confidence and knowledge necessary to lead others in your own physical therapy practices. Applicants must hold an entry-level degree in a rehabilitation profession or related field.
Your courses will cover both the theories behind developing a successful teaching methodology, as well as how to apply your lessons in real-world situations to reach your students and share your experience with them. Your graduate certificate experience will culminate with a practicum that may include developing lesson plans, lecturing and overseeing laboratory experiences.
Other courses that you could take as you master the principles of teaching and learning within the physical therapy world include:
Methods of Teaching and Learning in Rehabilitations
Professional Education in Rehabilitation
Understanding Evidence-Based Practice
Graduate Certificate in Teaching and Learning for Health Science Professionals Resources
Graduate Certificate Requirements
Department of Human Movement Science
School of Health Sciences
Programs Related to the Graduate Certificate in Teaching and Learning for Health Science Professionals
Not sure if the graduate certificate in teaching and learning is right for you? Check out these other graduate certificate programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Corporate and Worksite Wellness
Clinical Exercise Science
Orthopedic Manual Physical Therapy
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

