URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/musical-theatre/

Bachelor of Fine Arts
Theatre
Get your career off to a fast start at one of the Midwest’s best musical theatre colleges.
Talent agents and casting directors regard Oakland as one of the best musical theatre colleges in the region. Graduates of our musical theatre program are routinely cast in national tours, regional theatre, the TV/film industry, and Broadway. You’ll get exceptional, personalized training in our musical theatre program, learning from musical theatre veterans in a professional setting that enables your unique talent to shine. With a professional equity theatre company in residence and strong connections to New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, and other performance hubs, our musical theatre degree lets you showcase your ability and gain a competitive edge that promotes your career.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Talent agents and casting directors regard Oakland as one of the best musical theatre colleges in the region. Graduates of our musical theatre program are routinely cast in national tours, regional theatre, the TV/film industry, and Broadway. You’ll get exceptional, personalized training in our musical theatre program, learning from musical theatre veterans in a professional setting that enables your unique talent to shine. With a professional equity theatre company in residence and strong connections to New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, and other performance hubs, our musical theatre degree lets you showcase your ability and gain a competitive edge that promotes your career.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Musical Theatre Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland is one of three Michigan universities that’s accredited by the National Association of Schools of Theatre (NAST). And we offer two unique opportunities that no other Michigan musical theatre college can match: a partnership with the state’s largest professional theatre company, Meadow Brook Theatre (which resides on Oakland’s campus), and the only Designated Linklater Voice Teacher (DTL) in Michigan. Oakland University also holds membership in the Musical Theatre Educators Alliance (MTEA).
In addition, our musical theatre program excels for its:
First-rate faculty.
You’ll learn from
musical theatre
veterans who have decades of professional experience and extensive industry connections. In addition to helping you maximize your talent, our
musical theatre
faculty teach you the practical career skills you need to market yourself successfully and develop a career in the
musical theatre industry
.
Individual coaching.
Oakland’s
musical theatre program
emphasizes personal, one-on-one faculty attention. You’ll develop strong mentoring relationships that help you identify and cultivate the unique talents you bring to the table.
High-visibility performance opportunities.
You’ll have the opportunity to audition for meaningful roles all four years in our
musical theatre program
. We mount three to four
musical theatre
productions a year on our main stage, with additional shows in smaller on-campus venues. And in your senior year, you’ll have the chance to jump-start your professional career in a performance showcase and week-long intensive, making valuable connections in the
musical theatre
industry.
Career development.
At Oakland, you’ll acquire practical skills that equip you to make a living in the
musical theatre industry
. You’ll learn how to market yourself, network effectively, and create opportunities to advance professionally.
What Can You Do With a Musical Theatre Degree?
Directors, composers, talent agents, and casting directors recognize Oakland University as one of the
best musical theatre colleges
in the Midwest. In the most recent hiring cycle before COVID, our
musical theatre program
achieved a 90% job placement rate in an extremely competitive industry.
Graduates of our
musical theatre program
work in all aspects of the entertainment industry, including on-stage performance, TV and film, voiceover, commercials, directing, design, technical theatre, house management, and organizational leadership. You may start your
musical theatre career
with employers such as:
Broadway
National and international Broadway touring companies
Leading regional theatres
Theatre for young audiences
Repertory theatre companies
Theme park and cruise ship employment
Top Courses for the Musical Theatre Degree
Admission to the
musical theatre program
requires an entrance audition prior to enrollment. Consult
the departmental website
for full information.
The
musical theatre degree
itself consists of 74 to 80 credits of required coursework in theatre, music, and dance. Courses in
musical theatre
vary widely and cover subject areas that include:
Acting
Stagecraft
Makeup and costumes
Vocal techniques
Musicianship
Dance techniques
The
musical theatre degree
concludes with at least one capstone project in the area(s) of:
Directing
Performance
Design and theatre technology
Classical theatre study abroad in Greece
Theatre company
Musical Theatre Program
Resources
Program Requirements
Minor Requirements
Department of Theatre
School of Music, Theatre, and Dance
Programs Related to
the
Musical Theatre
Program
Not sure if the
Musical Theatre degree
is right for you? Check out these other undergraduate programs at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Bachelor of Fine Arts in Acting
Bachelor of Arts in Theatre
Bachelor of Fine Arts in Theatre Design and Technology
Current Musical Theatre Internships
Internship Program – Multiple Opportunities at Love Unlimited Church
marketing, comms, design, and sales interns at angelic talent management
SMTD Student Musician at Oakland University
Summer Dance Instructor and Camp Counselor at Camp Danbee
Summer Intern, Talent Buying – AEG Presents Zero Mile (Carolinas) at AEG Worldwide
Spring Intern, Talent Buying – AEG Presents Zero Mile (Carolinas) at AEG Worldwide
Summer Intern, Marketing – AEG Presents (Rocky Mountains) at AEG Worldwide
Spring Intern, Marketing – AEG Presents (Rocky Mountains) at AEG Worldwide
Summer Camp Counselor at Camp Skylemar
Summer Worship Leader Intern at Center Lake Bible Camp
Voiceover Intern - Winter/Spring 2025 (REMOTE) at DDO Artists Agency - Voice Over
Teaching Assistant: Music Industry & Production (Summer 2025) at National Student Leadership Conference
Performing Arts Education Internship at Camp Wicosuta
Internship Opportunities at Interlochen Arts Camp/Interlochen Center for the Arts
Music Teacher Intern at Sleepaway camp at Camp North Star
Choral Music Librarian at Oakland University
Video Editing Intern at Co-x3 Family Foundation
Summer Junior Fellowship Program at HAVAS
+ Show More
- Show Less
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

