URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/theatre-design-and-technology/

Bachelor of Fine Arts
Theatre Design and Technology
Put your technical theatre and design skills in the spotlight at Oakland University.
Our technical theatre degree brings attention to students who work behind the scenes. We’ll provide you with exceptional opportunities to showcase your talent and develop the professional polish required for technical theatre jobs. You’ll get expert instruction from industry veterans who have active technical theatre careers in lighting, costumes, set design, sound, stage management, and other specialties. In our technical theatre program you’ll play meaningful roles in production from your freshman year onward, building marketable skills and hands-on experience that can help you get your first technical theatre job. Our graduates routinely succeed in the industry, building technical theatre careers with touring companies, regional theatres, theme parks, corporate expos, and even on Broadway.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Our technical theatre degree brings attention to students who work behind the scenes. We’ll provide you with exceptional opportunities to showcase your talent and develop the professional polish required for technical theatre jobs. You’ll get expert instruction from industry veterans who have active technical theatre careers in lighting, costumes, set design, sound, stage management, and other specialties. In our technical theatre program you’ll play meaningful roles in production from your freshman year onward, building marketable skills and hands-on experience that can help you get your first technical theatre job. Our graduates routinely succeed in the industry, building technical theatre careers with touring companies, regional theatres, theme parks, corporate expos, and even on Broadway.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Theatre Design and Technology Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
Technical theatre jobs require superior interpersonal skills, and that’s one of Oakland University’s biggest strengths. You’ll be part of a tight-knit community in our technical theatre and design program, getting lots of one-on-one attention from faculty and support from your peers.
Our technical theatre and design degree enables you to:
Gain production experience immediately.
You won’t have to wait a year or two to join a production crew. Our technical theatre and design degree requires extensive first-hand experience, so you’ll get meaningful assignments starting as a freshman. With more than 150 shows every year in music, theatre, and dance, our performance schedule offers enough opportunity for everyone to get involved.
Work in professional facilities.
Our theatrical stages, concert hall, design shops, and other facilities are equipped with the same technology that’s used in the industry. You’ll work with high-caliber production systems that give you direct preparation for technical theatre jobs.
Connect with professional arts organizations.
Technical theatre and design majors at Oakland University routinely collaborate with local theatre, music, and dance companies. You may work on a production crew, participate in design, assist with outreach or educational activities, or serve in another capacity.
Learn from experienced faculty.
Our technical theatre professors excel as educators and artists. You’ll learn from seasoned craftspeople who have years of experience, strong industry connections, and professional insights that you can’t find in any textbook.
Get varied experience.
You’ll work in every facet of production, including costumes, lighting, sound, stage direction, set design, props, and house management. We offer a well-rounded degree that lays the foundation for whatever type of technical theatre career interests you.
What can you do with a technical theatre and design degree?
Technical Theatre Careers
Oakland University graduates have an excellent record of achievement in technical theatre careers. Many of our alumni work for performing arts centers and arts organizations, but you may also find opportunities in museum exhibition, corporate trade shows, digital media, broadcasting, tourism, and other industries.
Depending on your area of academic focus, you can pursue technical theatre jobs in areas such as:
Production design
Set design
Lighting
Makeup
Costume design
Stage management
Sound production
Special effects
Technical Theatre and Design Degree: What You’ll Study
To gain admission to the technical theatre and design BFA program, you must first complete a portfolio review. After completing initial coursework, you will then complete a second review to proceed to upper-level courses.
Required coursework in the technical theatre and design degree covers areas such as:
Theatre history
Architecture and fashion
Drafting and drawing
Elements of design
Stagecraft
Costumes
Lighting
Sets and scenery
Stage management
Technical direction
The technical theatre program concludes with a professional internship, study abroad, or two capstone courses.
Technical Theatre and Design Degree Program Resources
Major Requirements
School of Music, Theatre and Dance
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Theatre and Design Degree
Not sure if the theatre and design degree is right for you? Check out these other graduate degree programs at Oakland and contact our admissions team to discuss your options:
Bachelor of Fine Arts in Musical Theatre
Bachelor of Arts in Theatre
Bachelor of Fine Arts in Acting
Current Theatre Design and Technology Internships
Technical Theatre Internship at The Naples Players
English, History, and Stage and Screen Research Intern at Academic Programs International
English, History, and Stage and Screen Research Intern at Academic Programs International
English, History, and Stage and Screen Research Intern at Academic Programs International
Costume Design & Coordination Paid Internship at Pittsburgh CLO
Ticket Services Intern at Starlight
Technical Theatre Intern at Starlight
Part-Time Internships for Award-winning Non-profit Theater in NYC! at Actors Theatre Workshop
Non-Profit Business Management Internship for NYC Theater at Actors Theatre Workshop
+ Show More
- Show Less
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

