URL: https://www.oakland.edu/biology/undergraduate-programs/

Undergraduate Programs
Biology is a creative, passionate, and inquisitive pursuit of knowledge about the living world around us. It is a dynamic field with new technological advances. Students in our programs are driven and engaged in their learning; we invite you to experience biology first hand. Faculty are committed to providing exceptional teaching and research experiences. Together we will help you grow a lifelong passion for the biological sciences, apply valuable skills to your career, and reach your goals. The Department of Biological Sciences houses accomplished research laboratories where undergraduates work directly with faculty and graduate students on independent research projects. This unique hands-on experience will prepare you for a future career in science.
Apply Now
Course Requirements
Course Descriptions
Biology B.A.
With an undergraduate degree in biology, you will be prepared for graduate study in the life sciences and various career options from ecologist to educator to wildlife biologist.
The B.A. is designed for students intending to incorporate a biology major into a broader liberal arts program in pursuit of careers in technical fields or business or postgraduate study. See the link below for a sample schedule.
Students in the B.A. curriculum who wish to apply to medical or dental schools are advised to complete the concentration in pre-medical/pre-health studies: medicine, dentistry, optometry and veterinary medicine.
Many biology majors elect to participate in the research programs of individual faculty members for which they receive course credit (BIO 4995). The student must initiate the process by talking to faculty members about their areas of areas of
research
. Laboratory space is limited so an early commitment of a year's involvement is expected. Other students carry out a library literature search (BIO 3920) under a faculty mentor. A third option is BIO 4970, Scientific Inquiry and Communication. One of these options is required for both the B.S. and the B.A. degrees.
Biology B.A. Major Requirements
Biology Minor Requirements
Biology BA Sample Schedule
Biology B.S.
With an undergraduate degree in biology, you will be prepared for graduate study in the life sciences and various career options from ecologist to educator to wildlife biologist.
The B.S. is designed for students who wish to pursue a career in the sciences, including medicine and health-related fields. Bachelor of Science students may elect to specialize in anatomy, microbiology, or cell-molecular biology or pursue a concentration in pre-medical studies. See the B.S. catalog entry for more information about these offerings and the link below for a sample schedule.
Many biology majors elect to participate in the research programs of individual faculty members for which they receive course credit (BIO 4995). The student must initiate the process by talking to faculty members about their areas of
research
. Laboratory space is limited so an early commitment of a year's involvement is expected. Other students carry out a library literature search (BIO 3920) under a faculty mentor. A third option is BIO 4970, Scientific Inquiry and Communication. One of these options is required for both the B.S. and the B.A. degrees.
Biology B.S. Major Requirements
Biology Minor Requirements
Physiology Concentration Requirements
Biology BS Sample Schedule
Biology B.S. Program Overview
Biomedical Sciences
The Bachelor of Science in Biomedical Sciences major at Oakland University is designed to provide excellent preparation for accomplished undergraduates students who:
plan on continuing education towards a medical professional degree (M.D., D.O., P.A., D.V.M., etc.) or
are interested in pursuing a graduate degree (M.S., Ph.D.) leading to a research career in human biology.
This major integrates a multitude of core disciplines and provides students with a comprehensive foundation in biology and other basic sciences. The coursework also includes requirements in psychology, ethics, and social sciences, which complement the basic sciences for specialization areas in which human interaction is a significant component. A balance between theoretical and practical experience and an emphasis on integrative biology are key elements to the biomedical sciences major. Satisfactory completion of the program requires a minimum grade point average of 3.0 in the core courses.
Students will be admitted to the program upon completing BIO 1200 and CHM 1440, each with a grade point average (GPA) of 3.6 and declaring the major.
To earn a Bachelor of Science degree with a major in biomedical science, students must complete a minimum of 116 credits including the core courses and 12 credits from the list of program elective courses. One can also specialize their studies with a concentration in Physiology.
Biomedical Sciences Major Requirements
Physiology Concentration Requirements
Biomedical Sciences Sample Schedule
Biomedical Sciences Program Overview
Biochemistry
This interdepartmental program offers a Bachelor of Science degree with a major in biochemistry. The biochemistry program is based on faculty resources and research facilities in the departments of
Biological Sciences
and
Chemistry
. The curriculum is designed to prepare students for a career in biochemical research, graduate study in biochemistry or molecular biology, or professional education in medicine, dentistry or other health sciences.
The specialized research facilities for cellular and analytical biochemistry at Oakland University include tissue culture facilities, an ultracentrifugation laboratory, isotope laboratories with beta and gamma counters, equipment for gas and high pressure liquid chromatography, and GC/MS, UV-vis, fluorescence, NMR, EPR, laser Raman, and atomic absorption spectrometers. Recent biochemical instrumentation acquisitions include a flow cytometer, a radioisotopic image analyzer, automated capillary electrophoresis, confocal microscope and DNA sequencer.
Undergraduate students in the biochemistry program have access to faculty research laboratories and are encouraged to participate in various ongoing research programs such as studies in metabolism, gene expression, hormone action, immunochemistry, molecular biology, molecular genetics and macromolecular structure. The minimum requirement for a B.S. in biochemistry is 124 credits, including course work in biological sciences (16 credits), chemistry (32 credits) and biochemistry (12 credits) as detailed below. No more than 8 credits of course work used to fulfill the requirements of a major or minor in biology or chemistry may be used to fulfill the requirements of a major in biochemistry.
Program honors and scholarships
Program honors may be granted to graduating seniors in biochemistry on the basis of high academic achievement (minimum 3.60 overall grade point average) and excellence in biochemical research at Oakland University.
The Professional Biochemistry Scholarship sponsored by Oxford Biomedical Research Inc. will be awarded to a junior biochemistry major who shows promise for achievement in the field based on performance in BCM 4254/4256/4257 and evaluation by the Biochemistry Committee.
Biochemistry Major Requirements
Biochemistry sample schedule
For more information contact:
Colin Wu, Program Coordinator
(248) 370-2349
[email protected]
Biochemistry Program Overview
Bioengineering
The program in Bioengineering, offered jointly by the School of Engineering and Computer Science and the College of Arts and Sciences, leads to the Bachelor of Science degree. It combines training in biology with depth in either computation or engineering.
Learn more about the interdisciplinary program in Bioengineering.
Bioengineering Major Requirements
Bioengineering Program Overview
Integrated Science B.A.
Prepare for a career in teaching biology at the secondary level with the combined Bachelors and Masters of Arts in Integrated Science. This 5-year program leads to an Integrated Science BA, a Master of Arts in Teaching and a recommendation for certification to the Michigan Department of Education.
Students in the Integrated Science program must complete all major courses with a grade of C or higher, and complete both WRT 1060-Composition II and SED 1000-Careers in Teaching and Learning with a grade of B or higher.
Delayed admission into the MAT program permits students to substitute the 12 elective undergraduate level credits for four graduate level courses and pay undergraduate tuition rates.
Students enrolled in the pervious Secondary Teacher Education Program (STEP) program have the option to complete their current program or transition into the BA/MAT in secondary education through the 2028-2029 academic year, which is when the current Michigan teacher certification requirements expire. Students are strongly encouraged to consult with our
departmental advising
or
CAS advising
.
Integrated Science program overview
Integrated Science BA/MAT Requirements
Integrated Science BA/MAT information packet
Integrated Science sample schedule
Minors
Liberal arts minor in biology
Students in other departments who wish to minor in biology must take a minimum of 20 credits in biology. Students majoring in other life science areas should be familiar with the restrictions on dual use of courses to satisfy both major and minor requirements.
Biology Minor Requirements
Urban Agriculture and Agroecology Minor
Anyone who is interested in learning more about our food system and its impacts on health and the environment would benefit from the classes in this minor. It is a good complement to majors such as
environmental sciences
and
health sciences
including nutrition and public health. Students majoring in the humanities, such as integrative studies, liberal studies, sociology and anthropology, as well as in areas of business, entrepreneurship and communication, may also benefit from taking this minor.
Students are encouraged to reach out to the program's advisor
Fay Hansen
for further information.
Urban Agriculture and Agroecology Minor Requirements
3+3 Law Program
Students looking for a balance between law and biology are welcome to explore the 3+3 Law Program. The extended program allows students to earn a Bachelor’s degree (B.A.) and a Law degree (J.D.) in a fast-paced learning environment. The program can be completed in a minimum of 6 years.
The Department of Biological Sciences participated in the Oakland University - Detroit Mercy Law School 3+3 program, the Oakland University - Michigan State University 3+3 program and the Oakland University-Wayne State University 3+3 program. Students with a biological sciences B.A. major are welcome to participate.
Program Requirements
BIOLOGY 3+3 SAMPLE SCHEDULE
Department of Biological Sciences
Dodge Hall Rm 375
118 Library Dr
Rochester, MI 48309-4479
(location map)
(248) 370-3550
fax: (248) 370-4225
[email protected]
Department of Biological Sciences
Dodge Hall Rm 375
118 Library Dr
Rochester, MI 48309-4479
(location map)
(248) 370-3550
fax: (248) 370-4225

