URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/women-and-gender-studies/

Bachelor of Arts
Women and Gender Studies
Our gender studies degree prepares you to work responsibly in a diverse world.
Oakland University’s Bachelor of Arts in Women and Gender Studies empowers you to work towards social justice. You’ll acquire relevant, highly marketable expertise about the effects of gender and sexual orientation on work, family, income, politics, and social dynamics. Our gender studies degree equips you to communicate effectively, think independently, exercise sound analytical judgment, and promote constructive attitudes about gender, race, ethnicity, and social class. A bachelor’s degree in women and gender studies can position you for leadership roles in business, government, education, and community leadership.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Oakland University’s Bachelor of Arts in Women and Gender Studies empowers you to work towards social justice. You’ll acquire relevant, highly marketable expertise about the effects of gender and sexual orientation on work, family, income, politics, and social dynamics. Our gender studies degree equips you to communicate effectively, think independently, exercise sound analytical judgment, and promote constructive attitudes about gender, race, ethnicity, and social class. A bachelor’s degree in women and gender studies can position you for leadership roles in business, government, education, and community leadership.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Women and Gender Studies Degree: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland’s Bachelor of Arts in Women and Gender Studies integrates academic theory with applied practice. You’ll learn how the concept of gender affects real-world institutions and real people, while developing the ability to promote positive change.
Our gender studies degree offers:
Hands-on experience.
As part of the gender studies degree, you’ll complete at least one internship or field-based project that involves community service, activism, or research. The women and gender studies program culminates in a semester-long capstone project that highlights your research, critical analysis, oral presentation, and writing abilities.
Academic flexibility.
Elective courses make up half of the credits in the gender studies degree, allowing you to focus your studies on almost any aspect of gender studies. Course offerings vary widely and cover areas such as crime and justice, women of color, economic and workforce inequity, LGBTQ+ issues, international trends, and political movements.
A culture of inclusion.
Like Oakland University as a whole, the women and gender studies program welcomes all students regardless of sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, race, ethnicity, or socioeconomic background. The program has small classes and promotes collaboration and mutual support, encouraging a safe environment that enables all students to thrive.
Interdisciplinary faculty.
Instructors in the women and gender studies program come from departments throughout Oakland University. You’ll learn from professors in arts, sciences, humanities, and business, gaining an exceptionally broad range of perspectives that reflects the community’s diversity.
Versatile skills for the workforce.
Liberal arts majors are in rising demand for their ability to solve problems creatively, analyze critically, synthesize information across disciplines, and communicate effectively. The women and gender studies degree cultivates proficiency in all of those skills, giving you outstanding preparation for the job market.
What Can You Do With a Bachelor’s Degree in Women and Gender Studies?
Oakland University’s women and gender studies degree can support an exceptionally broad range of professional pursuits, as well as graduate programs in gender studies and other disciplines.
Alumni of our gender studies program have gone on to successful careers in a wide variety of fields. A partial list includes:
Nonprofit leadership
Counseling
Law
Political activism
Social work
Journalism
Government administration
Higher education
Women and Gender Studies Major: What You’ll Learn
The bachelor’s degree in women and gender studies totals 40 credits in all. Requirements include an introductory course, classes in feminist theory and feminist analysis, a field experience, and a capstone project. Electives make up the remaining 20 credits, with a broad range of courses to choose from. You can study subjects such as:
LGBTQ+ issues
Gender communication
Women in art
Gender and international relations
Media and gender
Queer theory
African-American women’s history
Gender in China
Gender discrimination
Cross-cultural perspectives on women
Sociology of gender
Women, crime, and justice
Women and Gender Studies Program Resources
Major Requirements
Minor Requirements
Women and Gender Studies Department
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Bachelor of Arts in Women and Gender Studies
Not sure if the Anthropology degree is right for you? Check out these other undergraduate degrees at Oakland, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Bachelor of Arts in History
Bachelor of Arts in Sociology
Religious Studies Concentration
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

