URL: https://www.oakland.edu/careers/master-of-music-in-world-percussion-performance/

MASTER OF MUSIC
WORLD PERCUSSION PERFORMANCE
Keep the beat going by expanding your knowledge of world percussion repertoire and technique.
Pursue your passion for global percussion with Oakland University’s Master of Music in World Percussion Performance. With our advanced music degree, you’ll dive deeper into the world of global percussion performance and the techniques used during concerts, plays and other types of entertainment. Through hands-on training and mentorship opportunities with nationally and internationally known faculty, you’ll further your own personal percussion performance skills while deepening your musical understanding.
Explore Oakland’s Master of Music degree in World Percussion Performance and see how our personalized curriculum and special creative community will empower your confidence and transform your future.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Pursue your passion for global percussion with Oakland University’s Master of Music in World Percussion Performance. With our advanced music degree, you’ll dive deeper into the world of global percussion performance and the techniques used during concerts, plays and other types of entertainment. Through hands-on training and mentorship opportunities with nationally and internationally known faculty, you’ll further your own personal percussion performance skills while deepening your musical understanding.
Explore Oakland’s Master of Music degree in World Percussion Performance and see how our personalized curriculum and special creative community will empower your confidence and transform your future.
Request Info
Visit
Apply
Program Requirements
Master of Music Degree in World Percussion Performance: The Oakland University Advantage
Oakland University’s comprehensive Master of Music in World Percussion Performance develops your global musicianship and creativity through the pillars of technique, repertoire, critical listening, improvisation, composition, cultural grounding, mind-body wellness, and community engagement.
Our advanced music degree excels for its:
Diverse world percussion ensembles:
Whether it’s studying and performing steel pan and drum traditions from Trinidad or xylophone rituals from Ghana and Uganda, our ensembles let you express yourself while developing your practice in the context of traditional world music.
Expert instruction from passionate faculty:
Oakland’s graduate-level music major features faculty who are also professional musicians. They give you an inside look into the world of percussion performance and use their experience and knowledge to cultivate your talent.
Comprehensive and quality academics:
Our Master of Music in World Percussion Performance offers a wide range of courses like African ensemble and world percussion pedagogy, ensuring a well-rounded graduate experience. As an advanced music major, you’ll be prepared to excel as a versatile and accomplished performer.
Opportunities to expand your worldview:
Through unique study abroad opportunities for music majors, you can take your love for the performing arts across the globe. Explore places like Ghana and St. Lucia to discover rich cultural and performing art traditions.
What Can You Do With a Master of Music Degree in World Percussion Performance?
The Master of Music in World Percussion Performance at Oakland University builds upon your previous percussion experience to expand your career path in the field of music. As a graduate-level music major, you’ll hone your technical skills and artistic talents to thrive in your professional and personal life. Whether you strive to be a professional musician, music producer or music educator, our master’s in world percussion performance equips you to transform the future of music.
With OU’s Master of Music in World Percussion Performance, you could enjoy a career as a:
Classical musician
Drumming instructor
Music director
Music education director
Music professor
Producer
Recording artist
Solo performer
Studio musician
Master of Music Degree in World Percussion Performance: What You’ll Learn
Our master’s in world percussion performance develops your proficiency in the theoretical, conceptual and artistic aspects of percussion. Applicants must hold a bachelor’s degree in music from a regionally accredited institution or its U.S. equivalent. A successful audition demonstrating prior experience is also required.
With a comprehensive blend of theory and practice — culminating in a master’s recital project — our advanced music major will expand your skill set as both a student and a musician.
Explore the curriculum for our master of music degree, which includes courses like:
Creative Jazz Ensemble
The Creative Process in African/Indian Music
Global Arts Study Abroad
Seminar in Baroque and Classical Music
Steel Band
World Percussion Pedagogy
Master’s in World Percussion Performance Program Resources
Degree Requirements
School of Music, Theatre and Dance
College of Arts and Sciences
Programs Related to the Master’s in World Percussion Performance
Not sure if the Master of Music degree in World Percussion Performance is right for you? Check out these other graduate-level music majors at Oakland University, and contact our admissions team to discuss your options.
Master of Music in Performance
Master of Music in Conducting
Master of Music in Education
Master of Music in Pedagogy
Be Golden
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply

