URL: https://flemingcollege.ca/programs/general-carpenter-403a-apprenticeship-level-2

Home
»
Home
»
Programs
»
General Carpenter (403A) Apprenticeship - Level 2
General Carpenter (403A) Apprenticeship - Level 2
Program Information
Start Date
January 06, 2025
Sutherland Campus
January 06, 2025
Domestic Availability
Start an apprenticeship
International Availability
Not Available
Program Code
AGI
Delivery
In Person
Credential
Apprenticeship
Academic School
School of Trades and Technology
Location
Sutherland Campus
Program Contacts
Scott Fleming
Program Coordinator
Patti-Lynn Davis
Program Contact
Apprenticeship Registration
Ministry Offers Contact
View Curriculum
8 weeks
Note:
This is an apprenticeship program. You cannot apply to this program through ontariocolleges.ca. Eligibility to attend this program is determined by the Ministry of Labour, Immigration, Training and Skills Development. You must be a registered apprentice with the Ministry which includes being sponsored by an eligible employer. The Ministry specifies all the eligibility requirements and extends offers to attend this program only to eligible students. For more information on Apprenticeship in Ontario see
Start an apprenticeship | Ontario.ca
Program Highlights
In the Carpenter apprenticeship program, you'll combine your three in-school Basic, Intermediate and Advanced sessions of 240 hours each with work experience. Instructors who have many years of practical experience in the trade, and related expertise, will give you the essentials you need to know to be a competent carpenter.
There's an increasing demand for carpenters with the current economic trend toward renovation and new construction. Take pride in a job well done - as a carpenter, you'll get to see the results of all your hard work, enjoy variety in work and projects, and make a good living.
Carpentry is a Red Seal trade which means registered apprenticeships are eligible to receive government-funded grants and incentives.
Why Choose Fleming
Our program is known for the high number of qualified tradespeople teaching the program. Our apprenticeship grads have a great success rate in writing their Certificate of Qualification and maintaining work in their trade. The Carpenters' Union, based in Port Hope, sends their best students to us to complete their apprenticeship training.
Pre-Exam Course
The Pre Certificate of Qualification Exam Preparation Course is now embedded into the Advanced-Level 3 program.
Is this You?
You've got to be self-motivated, committed to learning, and be interested in the carpentry trade. In order to complete the apprenticeship you have to be working in a carpentry position while taking the in-class courses at Fleming. As well, these helpful personal qualities and skills will help you along the path to success as a Carpenter apprentice:
an interest in learning on the job
good problem solving skills
good time management skills
the ability to work well under pressure/deadlines
good stress management skills
analytical thinking skills
math/logical thinking skills
Career Opportunities
Once you've completed your apprenticeship, you will qualify for the Certificate of Qualification and become a fully certified carpenter with inter-provincial status.
With a current shortage of qualified people in most skilled trades, you can apply for all kinds of jobs. Stay local or go anywhere in Canada with your qualifications - there are plenty of opportunities, particularly in urban areas.
There are plenty of places and projects where you can find employment, including construction companies of various types. As a self-employed carpenter, you'll be able to select the best paying projects based on your personal schedule and career goals.
Minimum Admission Requirements
Ontario Secondary School Certificate (Grade 10) is required to be considered for this apprenticeship.
Technology Requirements
PC / Windows
Operating System:
Windows 10
Processor:
Core i5 - 1.6Ghz minimum
Memory:
8GB minimum
Hard Disk:
160GB minimum
Internet Connection: 2.5 Mbps Download and 3.0 Mbps Upload (minimum)
Students are required to have their own computer, internet access, webcam and microphone.
Domestic Student Tuition
Domestic Tuition Detail
Tuition and ancillary fees are subject to change without notice.  The fees presented below reflect
Fall start programs only for the current academic year
.  For details about the fee differences for other program start dates please refer to the Tuition Details chart below.
Semester 1
Amount
AGI - Carpenter-General Apprentice Fees
$ 400.00
Total
$ 400.00
The fees above are for the current academic year for domestic students.  Please note that the fees reflect the Health Plan and Integrated Transportation (Sutherland Programs only) charges for the fall entry point.  These charges are applied up front and provide service coverage for a full year September to August.  The charges for the winter and spring terms are as follows:
Health Plan
Integrated Transportation
Coverage
Fall
$307.40
$365.00
September to August
Winter
$215.71
$255.50
January to August
Spring
$158.05
$142.35
May to August
Courses and Descriptions
Curriculum:  January 2025
Semester 1
Delivery: In Person
Estimating, Calculations and Layout II
CNST   2
Units/ Hours: 24
This course will introduce the apprentice to the procedures of estimating material quantities and related cost with respect to residential construction as per residential plans and specifications.  Note: Each candidate must be indentured to a qualified contractor or Union and be registered with the Ministry of Training, Colleges and Universities - Workplace/Employed Workers Support Branch.
Plans, Specifications and Codes II
CNST   6
Units/ Hours: 24
This course is divided into two sections. Section 1 deals with the interpretation of imperial and metric residential working drawings.  Extensive use will be made of the Ontario Building Code to ensure that construction drawings are in compliance. Also included, a preliminary look at electrical, plumbing and barrier free access. Section 2 is designed around word processing software to enable the student to generate professional reports and quotations.  Note: Each candidate must be indentured to a qualified contractor or Union and be registered with the Ministry of Training, Colleges and Universities - Workplace/Employed Workers Support Branch.
Residential Construction
CNST  11
Units/ Hours: 192
This course covers the layout of floors, walls, and roofs with gable, mansard, gambrel and hip rafters as associated with residential construction.  Also to be covered are sound and heat insulation along with exterior/interior finishing, including window and door trim.  Note: Each candidate must be indentured to a qualified contractor or Union and be registered with the Ministry of Training, Colleges and Universities - Workplace/Employed Workers Support Branch.