URL: https://flemingcollege.ca/programs/marketing-management

Home
»
Home
»
Programs
»
Marketing Management
Marketing Management
Note:
This program suspension will be effective from January 2025. Current and incoming students for Spring 2024 and Fall 2024 will not be affected.
Program Highlights
Prepare for a career in one of the fastest growing industries, suitable for professionals who want to use and develop their creative skills. Fleming College’s Marketing Management Program is designed to add specialized skills to your college diploma or university degree – and give you an edge in the job market. You will receive advanced training in a number of complex functions within the marketing field, including applying principles of business and financial analysis, using synthesizing and evaluation skills to support a variety of management functions, and develop management skills for cutting edge marketing techniques. Graduates of Marketing Management are able to apply planning, assessment, analysis, and evaluation skills to the marketing of a product or service, and its promotion, pricing, and placement/distribution, to support the marketing activities of an organization.
Graduates can enjoy many benefits in the marketing field based on their own interest and goals. Our highly practical learning approach will equip you for a variety of work responsibilities and help you to make a more informed career choice.
Opportunities include work in:
Advertising management
Product campaign management
Communications management
Fundraising management
Media and public relations management
Sales management
Social media and web communications management
Related Programs
This is a pathway program for any of Fleming College’s various diploma programs such as
Business
,
Business - Human Resources
,
Business – Accounting
, as well as other graduate certificate programs like
International Business Management
,
Global Business Management
,
Project Management
and
Supply Chain Management - Global Logistics
.
Graduates of the Marketing Management program could enter into one of the other previously mentioned post-graduate certificates upon completion.
Minimum Admission Requirements
Ontario College Diploma, Ontario College Advanced Diploma, Degree, or equivalent
Applicants must provide proof of English proficiency, choosing one of the following options: Option 1: Submission of English Language Test Scores. Applicants may receive direct admission by submitting one of the following recognized English language test scores with their application.
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) test with a minimum score of 88 with no score less than 22 for the Internet-based test (iBT) or a minimum score of 577 for the Paper-based test (PBT);
International English Language Testing System (IELTS) Academic test with an overall score of 6.5 with no band less than 6.0;
Canadian Academic English Language (CAEL) test with an overall score of 70;
Pearson Test of English Academic (PTE) with a minimum score of 60; or
Michigan English Language Assessment Battery (MELAB) score of 85.
Option 2:
Successful completion of a minimum three (3) years of full-time secondary or post-secondary education with English as the primary language of instruction, in a country where English is the principal language.
Applicants who do not meet any of the above language options may apply for conditional admission with one of the following:
Successful completion of English as a Second Language (ESL) or English for Academic Preparation (EAP) at an Ontario Community College or University
Successful completion of English as a Second Language (ESL) program at a partner institution
Successful completion of one (1) semester of study in a full-time post secondary program at an accredited college or university located in Canada