URL: https://flemingcollege.ca/programs/plumber-306a-apprenticeship-level-2

Home
»
Home
»
Programs
»
Plumber (306A) Apprenticeship - Level 2
Plumber (306A) Apprenticeship - Level 2
Plumbers are highly valued tradespeople and are an integral part of any construction and/or maintenance team. This in-demand trade offers many different areas of specialization that can lead you to a rewarding career.
Program Information
Start Date
January 06, 2025
Sutherland Campus
January 06, 2025
Domestic Availability
Start an apprenticeship
International Availability
Not Available
Program Code
API
Delivery
In Person
Credential
Apprenticeship
Academic School
School of Trades and Technology
Location
Sutherland Campus
Program Contacts
Neil Maika
Program Coordinator
Patti-Lynn Davis
Program Contact
Apprenticeship Registration
Ministry Offers Contact
View Curriculum
8 weeks
Note:
This is an apprenticeship program. You cannot apply to this program through ontariocolleges.ca. Eligibility to attend this program is determined by the Ministry of Labour, Immigration, Training and Skills Development. You must be a registered apprentice with the Ministry which includes being sponsored by an eligible employer. The Ministry specifies all the eligibility requirements and extends offers to attend this program only to eligible students. For more information on Apprenticeship in Ontario see
Start an apprenticeship | Ontario.ca
Program Overview
In the Plumber 306A Apprenticeship program you will attend three in-school sessions (Basic-Level One, Intermediate-Level Two, and Advanced-Level Three) of 240 hours each, in combination with your work experience. Instructors who have practical experience and expertise in the trade will teach you the essentials you need to know to be a successful Plumber.
Building on what you have learned in Level One, Level Two will train you in plumbing systems, drain-waste-vent piping systems, trade calculations and documentation, and welding.
Take pride in what you do. As a plumber, you'll see the results of your efforts, enjoy a wide range of work and projects, and make a good living.
Fleming also offers
Level One
and
Level Three
of in-school training for the Plumber Apprenticeship program.
Why Choose Fleming
You will learn from experienced and fully qualified tradespeople. These instructors are dedicated – they have worked, or continue to work, in the trade – and they will be there to help you and facilitate your learning experience.
Training takes place in the Kawartha Trades and Technology Centre, a best-in-class facility that offers state-of-the-art labs, and the latest plumbing tools and equipment. Through this high-quality in-school training, you will have all the skills and knowledge necessary to apply what you have learned to your on-the-job training.
Career Opportunities
Employment prospects for plumbers, both within the region and across the province, are excellent and growing. The apprenticeship allows you to pursue careers such as plumber, pipefitter (and related trades), or contractor/supervisor. You can choose to work in residential, industrial or institutional settings, and you can opt to work independently or as part of an organization. No matter what path you follow, there is a wealth of opportunities available.
Classroom Registration Fee
The Classroom Registration Fee is set by the Ministry of Labour, Training and Skills Development and is subject to change without notice.
Technology Requirements
PC / Windows
Operating System:
Windows 10
Processor:
Core i5 - 1.6Ghz minimum
Memory:
8GB minimum
Hard Disk:
160GB minimum
Internet Connection: 2.5 Mbps Download and 3.0 Mbps Upload (minimum)
Students are required to have their own computer, internet access, webcam and microphone.
Domestic Student Tuition
Domestic Tuition Detail
Tuition and ancillary fees are subject to change without notice.  The fees presented below reflect
Fall start programs only for the current academic year
.  For details about the fee differences for other program start dates please refer to the Tuition Details chart below.
Semester 1
Amount
API - Plumbing Apprentice-Intermediate Fees
$ 400.00
Total
$ 400.00
The fees above are for the current academic year for domestic students.  Please note that the fees reflect the Health Plan and Integrated Transportation (Sutherland Programs only) charges for the fall entry point.  These charges are applied up front and provide service coverage for a full year September to August.  The charges for the winter and spring terms are as follows:
Health Plan
Integrated Transportation
Coverage
Fall
$307.40
$365.00
September to August
Winter
$215.71
$255.50
January to August
Spring
$158.05
$142.35
May to August
Courses and Descriptions
Curriculum:  January 2025
Semester 1
Delivery: In Person
DWV Piping Systems
MECH 388
Units/ Hours: 48
In this course students will learn how to design, draw, install, and test various drains, waste, vent, and fixture installations. These skills will be applied in a commercial and residential application They will also be able to perform various service maintenance and repairs.
Plumbing Systems - Level 2
MECH 387
Units/ Hours: 120
This course will be the intermediate level of the theory portion of the Ontario Building Code (OBC). The students will learn, comprehend, and retain plumbing related material contained in the (OBC). This includes drainage, waste, and venting systems, plumbing fixtures, appliances and equipment, code, and properties of water. Theory learned will then be applied to the practical projects in the labs.
Trade Calculations - Level 2
MECH 389
Units/ Hours: 24
This course will enable students to apply specific trade related mathematical concepts and acquire foundational skills important in the Plumbing field. The material will cover area calculations, surface area calculations and volume calculations. Students will also learn about percentages and ratios and be expected to attain, comprehend, and be tested in all these subjects. This class is designed to complement and reinforce learning within other program areas.
Trade Documentation - Level 2
MECH 390
Units/ Hours: 24
This course covers the interpretation of information found in Municipal, Residential, and simple drain plans utilizing orthographic and isometric projections. Students will identify the individual drawings produced for elevation, structural, and municipal services through the interpretation of symbols relating to trade specific items. The students will be able to demonstrate the ability to identify material types and amounts used within a specific project as well as developing and practicing drawing plumbing layouts and drain plans using basic drafting instruments.
Welding - Level 2
MECH 391
Units/ Hours: 24
This course provides students with an opportunity to practice the fundamental processes of arc welding theory, terminology, equipment, procedures, and safety precautions. All students will be confident in arc welding procedures. Students will apply safe handling procedures for the use of potentially dangerous equipment in accordance with industry standards.