URL: https://flemingcollege.ca/programs/plumber-306a-apprenticeship-level-1

Home
»
Home
»
Programs
»
Plumber (306A) Apprenticeship - Level 1
Plumber (306A) Apprenticeship - Level 1
Plumbers are highly valued tradespeople and are an integral part of any construction and/or maintenance team. This in-demand trade offers many different areas of specialization that can lead you to a rewarding career.
Note:
This is an apprenticeship program. You cannot apply to this program through ontariocolleges.ca. Eligibility to attend this program is determined by the Ministry of Labour, Immigration, Training and Skills Development. You must be a registered apprentice with the Ministry which includes being sponsored by an eligible employer. The Ministry specifies all the eligibility requirements and extends offers to attend this program only to eligible students. For more information on Apprenticeship in Ontario see
Start an apprenticeship | Ontario.ca
Program Overview
In the Plumber 306A Apprenticeship program you will attend three in-school sessions (Basic-Level One, Intermediate-Level Two, and Advanced-Level Three) of 240 hours each, in combination with your work experience. Instructors who have practical experience and expertise in the trade will teach you the essentials you need to know to be a successful Plumber.
In Level One you will learn about tools and piping methods, plumbing systems, workplace safety, rigging and hoisting, and welding.
Take pride in what you do. As a plumber, you'll see the results of your efforts, enjoy a wide range of work and projects and make a good living.
Fleming also offers
Level Two
and
Level Three
of in-school training for the Plumber Apprenticeship program.
Why Choose Fleming
You will learn from experienced and fully qualified tradespeople. These instructors are dedicated – they have worked, or continue to work, in the trade – and they will be there to help you and facilitate your learning experience.
Training takes place in the Kawartha Trades and Technology Centre, a best-in-class facility that offers state-of-the-art labs, and the latest plumbing tools and equipment. Through this high-quality in-school training, you will have all the skills and knowledge necessary to apply what you have learned to your on-the-job training.
Career Opportunities
Employment prospects for plumbers, both within the region and across the province, are excellent and growing. The apprenticeship allows you to pursue careers such as plumber, pipefitter (and related trades), or contractor/supervisor. You can choose to work in residential, industrial or institutional settings, and you can opt to work independently or as part of an organization. No matter what path you follow, there is a wealth of opportunities available.
Classroom Registration Fee
The Classroom Registration Fee is set by the Ministry of Labour, Training and Skills Development and is subject to change without notice.