URL: https://flemingcollege.ca/programs/project-management

Home
»
Home
»
Programs
»
Project Management
Project Management
This post- graduate program provides graduates with the skills and knowledge to efficiently manage all aspects of a project to achieve organizational goals in a competitive global environment.
Note:
This program suspension will be effective from January 2025. Current and incoming students for Spring 2024 and Fall 2024 will not be affected.
Program Highlights
This program is designed for college and university students to enhance their education and acquire the skills to meet the growing demand for project managers in the global economy.
Efficient project management has become a key element in the success of today's organizations. Professionals in this field help to drive innovation and growth within the organization and facilitate the successful completion of projects. The increasing complexity of today's business environment requires a focus on business basics and well - developed project management skills. There is a globally accepted skill base required for effective project management. The content of this program aligns with the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK® Guide) as defined by the
Project Management Institute (PMI®)
, a worldwide industry organization association that maintains standards and credentials and certifies project management professionals in 185 countries.
Program courses are designed to guide students in the development of technical project management, leadership, organizational, interpersonal, meeting and presentation skills. Students will be introduced to traditional project management techniques as well as those from Agile Project Management and Lean Six Sigma standards.
Successful completion of this program will prepare students to pursue project coordination, leadership and management roles with organizations in a wide variety of sectors including business, technology, health care, engineering, government and not for profit. Typical positions for graduates of the program may include:
Business Analyst
Project Analyst
Project Control Analyst
Project Coordinator
Project Leader
Project Manager
Project Officer
Project Schedule Analyst
"CAPM", "PMP", "PMBOK" and "PMI" are registered marks of Project Management Institute Inc.
Why Choose Fleming?
Fleming College provides a learning experience that is supported by faculty with project management experience in a wide range of disciplines and industries. The College has strong local, regional and global ties and is highly attuned to the needs of the business community. Students will be surrounded by an environment that values academic excellence as well as practical workplace skills and has an extensive suite of support services.
Course material will be delivered using a variety of methods including traditional lectures, case studies, simulations, guest speakers and field trips as well as hands-on experience managing projects.
There is a vibrant and fast-growing international student community which provides a rich experience for domestic and international students.
What It Takes to Succeed
Cross-cultural awareness
Communication skills: verbal, written and presentation
Ability to work in teams, assume leadership role when required
Organization and time management skills
Problem solving skills, analytical abilities
Use your own personal computing device in and outside of the classroom. We recommend a laptop computer with the following minimum specifications: Windows 7 SPI or greater, 1GHz processor with SSE2 support, 2GHz RAM and at least 3GB of available disc space. Note that some required software programs are not supported on MAC OS.
Career Opportunities
Research undertaken by PMI® confirms the large and growing need for project management professionals. “Through 2020, 1.57 million new project management jobs will be created yearly in 11 countries. Already four in five organizations struggle to find qualified project talent. Yet, nearly half say they’ve cut back on training.” (Source: PMI Project Management Talent Gap Report, 2013).
Fleming College Business School Memberships
Member of ACBSP, a leading specialized global accreditor of business education recognized by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation and uniquely focused on teaching excellence and student outcomes.
Member of AACSB International, a global non-profit association that connects educators, students, and business to create the next generation of great leaders.
Jeremy Spencley, BComm, PMP, CertAPM
Professor: Project Management
Meet Jeremy, a leader in project management with over 15 years of experience in the oil and gas and mining industries. His exceptional skills and expertise have been utilized by major corporations. The majority of his project management career was with GE Canada where he held a senior management position as the manager of the PM team. Jeremy has also worked for notable organizations such as Sears Canada, Safran Electronics, and is the founder of boutique musical amplification company, Tribute Audio Designs.
In 2016, Jeremy decided to share his knowledge and experience with others and became a professor at Fleming College's School of Business. Today, he serves as the Program Coordinator for the Project Management program at Fleming. Jeremy's infectious passion for project management, entrepreneurship, and education makes him a role model and source of inspiration for anyone striving to achieve success in the world of business.