URL: https://flemingcollege.ca/programs/supply-chain-management-global-logistics

Home
»
Home
»
Programs
»
Supply Chain Management - Global Logistics
Supply Chain Management - Global Logistics
Prepare for a rewarding career in supply chain management with a specialty in global logistics, and acquire an industry certificate highly valued by employers.
Note:
This program suspension will be effective from January 2025. Current and incoming students for Spring 2024 and Fall 2024 will not be affected.
Program Highlights
Fleming's unique Supply Chain Management - Global Logistics program will provide you with the diverse skills to successfully oversee, synchronize and manage every step in the process as goods flow from raw material suppliers to the final customer.
This was the first program in the Ontario College system to offer an additional certificate as part of your studies and currently only in the eastern region. Earn the Canadian International Freight Forwarders Association (CIFFA) certificate in freight forwarding, highly valued by employers, in addition to your Ontario College Post-graduate certificate credential.
Examine and understand how effective and efficient logistics management contributes to the vitality of the economy and improves global competitiveness.
Apply your knowledge to contribute to the strategic planning and scheduling of material requirements, resource allocation and inventory for efficient production and fulfilment of customer orders and returns.
Learn hands-on from many experiential learning opportunities including community, humanitarian and industry applied research projects, trade related speakers and/simulation work in semester two.
Benefit from extensive global logistics coursework, including a comprehensive 60 -hour Customs Management course, not offered at other Ontario Colleges.
Gain the skills necessary to be successful in a high-performing team environment including leadership, communications and project management.
Why Choose Fleming
This Supply Chain Management graduate certificate program offers an additional certificate as part of your studies. Earn the Canadian International Freight Forwarders Association (CIFFA) certificate in freight forwarding, by CIFFA certified instructors. This certificate is highly valued by employers, in addition to your Ontario College Post-graduate Certificate credential.
Classes are small, taught by industry-recognized faculty.
Career Opportunities
Choose the career area that best suits you, whether that’s working within large, multi-national organizations or smaller operations in the manufacturing, retail, wholesale, construction, service or public sector.
Some of the career titles include:
Specialist
Analyst
Manager in the areas of transportation
Customs
Logistics
Materials management
Supply chain planning
Warehousing
Member of ACBSP, a leading specialized global accreditor of business education recognized by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation and uniquely focused on teaching excellence and student outcomes.
Member of AACSB International, a global non-profit association that connects educators, students, and business to create the next generation of great leaders.
Fleming College Business School Memberships
Member of ACBSP, a leading specialized global accreditor of business education recognized by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation and uniquely focused on teaching excellence and student outcomes.
Member of AACSB International, a global non-profit association that connects educators, students, and business to create the next generation of great leaders.
Christine Knight CCLP, CCS, P.Log
Professor: Supply Chain Management - Global Logistics
Meet Christine, a powerhouse in the supply chain logistics industry and a proud alumna of Fleming College. With over 15 years of experience in transportation operations for the beverage alcohol and third-party logistics (3PL) sectors, she has become a sought-after expert in her field. Christine holds three supply chain logistics designations and is a certified instructor with the Canadian International Freight Forwarders Association (CIFFA).
In 2017, Christine began sharing her wealth of knowledge with students at Fleming College's School of Business. Today, she serves as the Program Coordinator for the Supply Chain Management - Global Logistics program at Fleming, where she continues to inspire and mentor the next generation of supply chain professionals.