URL: https://flemingcollege.ca/programs/trent-fleming-bachelor-of-science-nursing

Home
»
Home
»
Programs
»
Trent/Fleming - Bachelor of Science - Nursing
Trent/Fleming - Bachelor of Science - Nursing
This integrated, collaborative four-year program leads to a Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.Sc.N.) Degree.
Program Highlights
Opportunities for practical application of theoretical principles are offered throughout the     program. Each level of the program has a specific focus for theory and practice around wellness,     illness, community, specialized and complex care issues.
Clinical placements are selected to allow students exposure to a variety of care delivery     environments as they learn the complexities of caring for individuals, families, groups and     communities. Students have the opportunity to request, subject to availability and agency requirements,     specialized placements and/or to develop a specific focus with the elderly, aboriginal communities,     rural communities and women’s health as examples, and are involved in care across the lifespan.
Theoretical and practicum opportunities demand a holistic approach to care delivery, recognizing     that the nurse must assess the needs of the client, plan, provide and evaluate care, and advocate     for quality health care for each client group. Various teaching methods are used, including     lectures, labs, seminars, case studies, simulations, virtual clinical excursions and online     learning.
The Trent/Fleming B.Sc.N. program is accredited by the Canadian Association of Schools of     Nursing; it has met the rigorous national standards for professional education programs.
Application Procedure
Applications for the Trent/Fleming B.Sc.N. program are to be submitted to the
Ontario Universities' Application Centre
.
You only need to apply to our program once, and your application is made to Trent University.     The
application code is RCN
.
Minimum Admission Requirements
A high school diploma including six Ontario 4U or 4M credits (or equivalent) including English         (ENG4U minimum 75% required) plus one 4U credit in each of Biology, Chemistry and Mathematics
Students must possess a minimum average of 75%, including the required courses, to be considered         for acceptance into the program.
All successful applicants will be required to obtain, through the process established by the     School of Nursing, a Criminal Record Check, Vulnerable Sector, to be renewed annually. Please     note that a student with a criminal record that is unacceptable to a clinical placement(s)     will not be able to complete the program.
In addition, all successful applicants will be required to obtain and submit the following     documentation prior to the start of classes:
Medical documentation re Health Status and Immunization Records
Full Hepatitis B Immunization
Current CPR Certification (within the past 12 months) from a provider satisfactory to the         School of Nursing
Two-step TB tests or clearance
Annual influenza vaccination is strongly recommended.
For more information and course lists
Contact Trent University:
(705) 748-1011 ext. 7809
nursingadmissions@trentu.ca
www.trentu.ca/nursing