https://en.unipv.it/en/education/bachelors-and-masters-degree-programs/second-cycle-degree-course/human-centered-artificial-intelligence

Home
Education
Bachelor's and Master's degree programs
Links condivisione social
Share button
Human-centered artificial intelligence
Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence is a new paradigm that is now at the center of research and development activities both at major companies and prestigious international research centers in the USA and Europe.
The underlying idea is to shift the focus of Artificial Intelligence from "stand-alone" applications aimed at replacing humans in intelligent tasks to interactive applications where human and machine intelligence collaborate to overcome the limitations of both.
The overall goal of this Master’s Degree program is to provide the interdisciplinary skills necessary to integrate artificial intelligence applications into the human context (business, institutional, educational) where such applications need to be used. The aim is to train new professionals capable of assuming high-responsibility roles in organizations and services aimed at individuals, groups, and communities (public administration, public and private companies), and to contribute to the design of interfaces and IT systems that are consistent with the human context of reference, addressing complex problems involving non-technical variables: strategic objectives, moral values, legal constraints, cognitive biases, and other psychological and social factors. From this perspective, human agents’ input becomes an integral part of an Artificial Intelligence system, and Artificial Intelligence itself is a set of sophisticated technologies to enhance human agents’ intelligence by expanding their cognitive capabilities. This creates a need for strongly interdisciplinary skills to sensibly and responsibly guide the integration of new technologies into the real contexts in which they are to be applied.
The aim is to train professionals who bridge the gap between the hard skills of expert developers and the soft skills necessary for integrating AI applications into the relevant human contexts.
Graduates of the Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence program will have:
A high level of expertise in disciplines that characterize the interaction between human cognition and Artificial Intelligence.
A deep understanding of the most advanced methods for data collection and analysis (machine learning).
A thorough knowledge of theoretical, technical, and cognitive aspects of human-machine interfaces.
The ability to design models and interventions for reorganizing the interfaces between humans and Artificial Intelligence systems.
The capability to conduct independent research activities in the field of artificial intelligence.
The ability to fluently use, both in writing and speaking, at least one European Union language in addition to Italian, with reference to sector-specific terminology.
A deep theoretical and practical understanding of communication and decision-making processes based on the use of artificial intelligence systems.
Overview of the program
Duration
2 years
Credits
120
Coordinator of the course
Area
Physical and Psychological Health Sciences
Access
Open
Language
English
Degree class
LM-55 - Cognitive sciences
Department
DEPARTMENT OF BRAIN AND BEHAVIORAL SCIENCES
Location
MILANO STATALE
Overview of the program, goals and career opportunities
Educational goals
Human-centered artificial intelligence is a new paradigm that today is at the center of the research and development activities of both large companies and prestigious international research centers in the USA and Europe. The underlying idea is to shift the center of gravity of Artificial Intelligence from "stand-alone" applications aimed at replacing humans in intelligent tasks to interactive applications in which human and machine intelligence collaborate to overcome the limits of both . The general objective of this master's degree course is to provide the interdisciplinary skills necessary to integrate artificial intelligence applications into the human context (corporate, institutional, educational) in which these applications must be used. It is therefore intended to train new professional figures capable of carrying out functions of high responsibility in organizations and direct services to individuals, groups and communities (public administration, public and private companies) and to contribute to the design of interfaces and IT systems that are consistent with the human context of reference, knowing how to deal with complex problems that involve variables of a non-technical nature: strategic objectives, moral values, legal constraints, cognitive biases and other psychological and social factors. From this point of view, the input of human agents becomes an integral part of an Artificial Intelligence system and Artificial Intelligence itself a set of sophisticated technologies to enhance the intelligence of human agents by expanding their cognitive capabilities. Hence the need for highly interdisciplinary skills that are able to sensibly and responsibly guide this process of integrating new technologies into the real contexts in which they must be applied. The aim is to train liaison figures between the hard skills of expert developers and the soft skills necessary to integrate AI applications into the human context of reference. Graduates in Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence will possess: - a high level of preparation in the disciplines that characterize the interaction between human cognition and Artificial Intelligence; - an in-depth knowledge of the most advanced methods of data collection and analysis (machine learning); - an in-depth knowledge of the theoretical, technical and cognitive aspects of human-machine interfaces; - the ability to design models and interventions for the reorganization of interfaces between humans and Artificial Intelligence systems; - the ability to independently conduct research activities in the field of artificial intelligence; - the ability to use fluently, in written and oral form, at least one European Union language other than Italian, also with reference to sector terminology; - an in-depth theoretical and operational knowledge of communication and decision-making processes based on the use of artificial intelligence systems. Even more specifically, the graduate will possess: - knowledge of the fundamentals and main methodologies of AI at an adequate level to interact profitably with IT experts and put them in communication with sector experts; - an in-depth knowledge of ethical issues, legal constraints, cognitive aspects, philosophical and neuroscientific foundations - associated with the use of Artificial Intelligence technologies to support, and not replace, human beings and their activities; - the basic knowledge necessary to adapt one's skills to the rapid development of new technologies, in order to promote a conscious and transparent use of new Artificial Intelligence applications. The specific objectives will be defined differently depending on the curricula. Since it is an interdisciplinary degree, which admits graduates from different backgrounds, these objectives will be achieved: - by inserting alternative courses into the educational offer which allow the integration of previously acquired knowledge depending on the three-year degree of origin and the exams taken; - proposing, in the initial part of the characterizing teachings essential to achieving the training objectives, "Advanced Foundations" courses whose aim is to provide a summary of the basic knowledge necessary to acquire more advanced contents; - offering students personalized study plans that guide them in these choices; - establishing a structured tutoring service to facilitate the use of these courses by students from different degree classes. The course, starting from a broad common basis, will be divided into three curricula. The common basis will consist of characterizing teachings belonging to the following areas: 1) philosophical and linguistic disciplines (with the addition of the sectors M-FIL/03, IUS-20 and IUS-08), for logical knowledge and skills, epistemological and ethical-legal 2) psychological disciplines, for the knowledge and skills on human-machine interaction and the role of AI in decision-making processes 3) psychobiological and neuroscience disciplines, for the knowledge and skills relating to cognitive functions and related neural bases 4) mathematical, computer science and engineering disciplines, for the knowledge and skills relating to machine learning models, algorithms and programming, the representation of knowledge and reasoning, natural language processing. Laboratories aimed at acquiring further IT knowledge and skills are also part of the common base. The three curricula aim to provide more specific preparation in relation to three main contexts: A) the general context of integrating AI applications into an organization and planning a fruitful collaboration between humans and machines, taking into account the component psychological and social aspects of this interaction. In this path the following will be provided: - further knowledge and skills in the field of AI, obtained through teaching in the fields of mathematics, IT and engineering disciplines, as well as additional computer laboratories; - knowledge and skills relating to the psycho-social and legal aspects connected to working in complex teams (made up of humans with different skills and machines) and the impact of AI on the organization of work, obtained through characterizing teachings in the field of psychological disciplines and related and integrative disciplines with particular reference to sociology and anthropology teachings. B) The context of clinical and theoretical neuroscience. In this path the following will be provided: - further knowledge and skills in the field of neural bases for the construction of AI-based, multiscale and bio-inspired neural models, and for the management of human-machine interface neural signals - related knowledge and skills to the application of AI algorithms in the field of clinical neuroscience, to promote the diagnostic and therapeutic/rehabilitative process in the direction of precision and personalized medicine, in the clinical neurological field C) The legal context (domestic and European) as well as ethical of AI applications in a public or private organization. In this path, the following will be provided: - further knowledge and skills in the field of AI, adopting a multidisciplinary approach that allows the mathematical, IT and engineering disciplines relating to a specific application area (judicial, of public administration, taxation, employment relationships, etc.), with their respective and specific legal critical issues. - knowledge and skills relating to the general ethical-legal aspects connected to AI applications, such as profiles relating to fundamental and human rights, data protection and collection, civil and criminal liability, protection of intellectual property, communication, transparency. All training courses guarantee, within the characterizing disciplines, a minimum of 12 training credits of IT courses in the first year, aimed at consolidating, or providing if necessary, the fundamental knowledge and skills in this field. The laboratory activities also provide, for all students, the acquisition of at least a further 9 training credits in activities useful for acquiring IT skills.
Career opportunities
Expert in Human-AI Cooperation Companies and corporate groups, including transnational ones, in public administrations, independent authorities and national, community and international agencies. He will also be able to carry out consultancy activities as a freelance expert in Neuro-AI Clinical structures, both public and private, neuroscience centres, R&D departments for the development of technological platforms for personalized and precision medicine, ICT departments in the biomedical field. Expert in AI and Law Companies and corporate groups, including transnational ones; public administrations; independent authorities and national, community and international agencies; freelancer.
Admission requirements
To be admitted to the master's degree course in Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence, you must have a three-year university degree or diploma, or a qualification obtained abroad and recognized as suitable. To access the CdS, basic knowledge of a logical-epistemological, or mathematical-computer science or in the field of cognitive, philosophical or legal sciences is required. Knowledge of the English language is also required. The curricular requirements consist of the possession of at least 30 CFU in the sectors INF/01, ING-INF/05, MAT/01.02, 05.07, 09 M-FIL/02.03, 05, MPSI/ 01.02, BIO/09, IUS/01, 08,09,20, of which: - at least 12 in the sectors INF/01, ING-INF/05, MAT/01, 02, 05, 07, 09; - at least 12 in the sectors M-FIL/02, 03, 05, M-PSI/01, 02, BIO/09, IUS/01, 08, 09, 20. Furthermore, knowledge of the English language must be equal to or higher than B2 level. Admission is subject to verification of possession of the curricular requirements and evaluation of the candidate's personal preparation through a personal interview, in the manner established by the teaching regulations. The interview can lead to the identification of a personalized study plan (directing the choices of optional exams) in order to guarantee the achievement of the training objectives taking into account the candidate's background and the knowledge and skills already acquired. To appropriately evaluate the congruence of the study path of candidates with qualifications obtained abroad on the basis of the above curricular requirements, the admissions commission will decide on the opportunity for admission by evaluating the knowledge and skills acquired in the previous course of studies on the basis of an interview also in electronic form.
Academic Regulation
Academic Regulation
Useful information
Course website