URL: https://www.svsu.edu/accounting/

Accounting Degree Programs
SVSU
> The Scott L. Carmona College of Business  > Accounting, Law, and Finance
About
Accounting students forge their own paths and tailor their education to meet their goals and career aspirations by selecting either the
Bachelor of Business Administration in Accounting (BBA)
degree or the
Bachelor of Professional Accountancy (BPA)
degree. With nearly 100 percent job placement, either option is a strong foundation for a successful career. Both programs include the same comprehensive fundamentals in accounting, but the BPA adds the 26 additional credits of coursework required to take the exam to become a Certified Public Accountant (CPA), one of the most respected and desirable credentials in the business world.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
A dedicated career fair for accounting and finance majors connects students with
paid internships and career opportunities.
Students can
earn academic credit for internships or CPA exam prep.
The Accounting Society helps accounting majors network with peers, and professionals
in the Great Lakes Bay Region.
Programs (Majors and Minors)
Accounting Major
Professional Accountancy Major
Accounting Minor for Business Students
Accounting Minor for Non-Business Students
Your Plan for a Successful College Experience
Download the Accounting Cardinal Plan
— a unique outline created by faculty for your program and serves as a guide for student success.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Plante Moran
Yeo & Yeo CPAs & Advisors
Deloitte LLP
Rehmann
Dow
Mercedes-Benz USA
Andrews, Hooper, Pavlik PLC
Career Opportunities
Audit Manager
Accounting & Financial Services Consultant
Treasury Analyst
Consolidation and Reporting Analyst
International Tax Accountant
Auditor
Accounts Receivable Manager
Certified Public Accountant (CPA)
After Graduation 2022
7.4% projected growth for the employment of accountant or auditor
with a Bachelor’s degree through 2026. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$70,500 is the median yearly pay for an accountant
in the U.S. in 2018. (Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s Accounting program, career doors are open to a multitude of fields including
public or corporate accounting, government work, education or nonprofit management
and many more.
Cardinal Successes
These stories offer insight into how students have turned their SVSU education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Mallory Fisher
Accounting Major
Read more…
Kevin Finley
Accounting Major
Read more…

