URL: https://www.svsu.edu/msn/

About the MSN Program
Admission Requirements
Curriculum
Program Cost
Frequently Asked Questions
Office of Graduate Studies
SVSU
/
Master of Science in Nursing (MSN)
Master of Science in Nursing (MSN)
✓ Lowest MSN tuition in Michigan
✓ Dedicated clinical placement team
✓ Flexible program tailored for working nurses
✓ 100% online program
Advance in Healthcare with SVSU's Master of Science in Nursing!
Graduate Admissions Coordinator
My name is Tanika Williams, MBA, MS,
and I am here to help you navigate your path to earning your graduate degree. If you have any questions regarding application requirements use one of the links below or feel free to text me at (989) 461-2050.
Meet With Tanika
Apply Now
Graduate Nursing Program Coordinator
Contact me at
cmhupert@svsu.edu
or (989) 964-4595 for questions about the MSN program.
Cynthia M Hupert
DNP, MSN, BSN, CNE Certification
Connect With Program Coordinator
The Master of Science in Nursing degree at SVSU prepares registered professional nurses for practice as a Nurse Educator, Nurse Administrator, or Dual Nurse Education / Nurse Administrator in a fully online program. More affordable than comparable programs with a variety of loans and scholarships available, SVSU’s Master of Science in Nursing program is a convenient and cost-effective way to advance your nursing career.
You can go from showing up for a shift, to showing up for your community. Designed for the working nurse, our Master of Science in Nursing program teaches valuable leadership techniques from experienced educators with real-world experience. Immerse yourself in a supportive and flexible environment that prepares you to work with your team and transform systems in clinical and academic settings, as well as in your communities.
The Primary Care Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) degree is now integrated into the BSN to DNP program. To learn more about this exciting opportunity, please visit the
Doctor of Nursing Practice program
.
Nurse Educator
The nurse educator develops and utilizes nursing and health curricula for academic preparation of new nurses, staff development of current health professionals, and community education projects. Responsibilities include provision of quality educational experiences based on the mission of their employer, needs of the students, and the latest scientific evidence.
See Curriculum
Nurse Administrator
The nurse administrator is accountable for staffing, resource acquisition and distribution, and patient care services within a health care system. Responsibilities include the development and maintenance of programs consistent with the organizational mission and vision, interdisciplinary collaboration for provision of quality care that is cost-effective, staff support, and patient satisfaction.
See Curriculum
Dual Nurse Education / Nurse Administrator
The Dual Nurse Education / Nurse Administrator has diverse responsibilities in healthcare. They manage staffing, resources, and patient care while aligning programs with the organization's mission. They promote cost-effective, high-quality care through collaboration, support staff, and ensure patient satisfaction. Additionally, they develop nursing curricula and offer staff development, emphasizing quality education and evidence-based practices.
See Curriculum
Industry Outlook
SVSU's MSN offers working adults a flexible solution for earning their degree from a highly ranked and nationally recognized program.
Average Job Growth*
13%
Average Salary Range*
$100K/year to $143K/year
Average Job Placement Rate for SVSU Graduates
90.9%
*Stats are approximations, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, US Department of Labor
Apply Now
The master's degree program in nursing at Saginaw Valley State University is accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (
http://ccneaccreditation.org
).
The Michigan State Board of Nursing of the Michigan Department of Consumer & Industry Services, Board of Nursing, P.O. Box 30193, Lansing, MI 48909, (517) 335-0918, approves the Nursing Program.
CONTACT US.
Graduate Admissions
Wickes Hall 230
gradadm@svsu.edu
(989) 964-6096
Cynthia M Hupert DNP, MSN, BSN
Graduate Nursing Program Coordinator
cmhupert@svsu.edu
(989) 964-4595
Tanika Williams
Graduate Admissions Coordinator
gradadm@svsu.edu
(989) 461-2050

