URL: https://www.svsu.edu/mpa/

Graduate Programs
About the MPA Program
Admission Requirements
Curriculum
Tuition and Aid
SVSU
/
Master of Public Administration (MPA)
Master of Public Administration (MPA)
✓ Lowest MPA tuition in Michigan
✓ Faculty have real-world experience
✓ Earn your degree in 24 months
✓ 100% online
✓ No GRE required
Advance Your Career with SVSU's Master of Public Administration (MPA) Degree
Saginaw Valley State University offers the region's most flexible online MPA degree at the lowest tuition rates in Michigan.
Meet Your Graduate Admissions Coordinator
My name is Tanika Williams, and I am here to help you navigate your path to earning your graduate degree. If you have any questions regarding specific programs or application requirements use one of the links below or feel free to text me at (989) 461-2050.
Apply Now
Meet With Tanika
Request Information
Choose Your Path
SVSU has two different paths for applicants to earn an MPA from SVSU. Select the
Public Administration Track
or the
University and College Student Affairs Administrative Track
.
What is a MPA degree?
The Master of Public Administration (MPA) is a leadership-based degree for those who are interested in becoming a leader within their organization or chosen career field. These positions include supervisors, team leaders, managers, directors, and executives.
What type of employment/jobs does a MPA degree apply to?
The SVSU MPA degree serves those who work (and lead) in the public, governmental, criminal justice, higher education, non-profit, and not-for-profit employment sectors. The courses in the program focus on the knowledge and skills needed to succeed as an organizational leader in these employment areas.
Is the MPA University and College Student Affairs Administrative track right for me?
If you are seeking a leadership position and career at a college or university (in a non-academic/teaching position) then this track is designed for you! You receive all the leadership courses in the MPA program, but you also get specialized classes for college and university administration, enrollment management, and student development.
May I use the degree to enter a doctoral program?
Yes, you can! In addition, to the required program courses, students who wish to continue their education and earn a Ph.D. or Ed.D. are strongly encouraged to take two capstone-related classes to enhance their doctoral applications.
Is this an online program?
Yes! This is a totally online program. The online format is perfect for those with diverse and busy lives. You will receive a quality education (taught by highly qualified full-time SVSU faculty members) that will prepare you for your future. There are no classes or meetings on campus. In addition, many classes are offered in an asynchronous format. This means that the assignment will open on a specific day and time and due the next week (in most cases) on the same day and time.
When can I start classes?
The SVSU MPA program has an open and year-round admission format. When you are admitted into the program, you may start classes in the fall, winter, or spring semesters. It is your decision!
How long does it take to complete the degree?
The SVSU MPA program is a 36-credit program that can be completed as soon as 24 months (for full-time students), including those in the College and University Student Affairs Administration track. Students may also take classes on a part-time basis if that is easier for their personal schedules. All students have up to seven years to complete the program.
Leading the Way
We’re looking for the doers. The leaders. The achievers. Advance your career and create a better, more welcoming workplace environment in just under two years with a Master’s in Public Administration from SVSU. Customizable and hands-on, our HLC-endorsed MPA program is the most affordable in the state, preparing you for leadership positions in a variety of public service organizations—from government to non-profits, and more.
Accessible Admission
Highly ranked and endorsed by the Higher Learning Commission, SVSU's MA program accepts students of all ages with varying levels of experience. A detailed list of requirements makes applying straightforward
and simple.
See Requirements
Designed Around You
Fully online with full-time or part-time options available, our versatile, hands-on curriculum is designed to give you diverse networking opportunities, and real-world experience. We also offer one of the only fully-online university and student affairs specializations available.
See Curriculum
Cost-effective and Competitive
More affordable than comparable programs with a variety of scholarships and aid available, SVSU's MPA program is a convenient and cost-effective way to make a difference and become a leader in your field.
See Tuition Information
Industry Outlook
SVSU's Master of Public Administration (MPA) offers working adults a flexible solution for earning a graduate degree from a highly ranked and nationally recognized program.
Average Job Growth*
10%
Average Salary Range*
$73K/year to $118K/year
Average Job Placement Rate for MPA SVSU Graduates
96.9%
*Stats are approximations, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, US Department of Labor
Apply Now
More
x
Steve Hensley
“As a young professional who is resolute on making a positive impact in my community — the SVSU MPA program helped advance my intellectual preparedness and overall skill set. My passions are rooted in civic engagement and service, but in order to institute change and cultivate key stakeholder relationships, the hard and soft skills taught within the MPA program has polished my poise, perspective, and approach — granting me greater opportunity to be successful, and in-turn, the community succeeds as well.”
Close
Steve Hensley
“As a young professional who is resolute on making a positive impact in my community — the SVSU MPA program helped advance my intellectual preparedness and overall skill set. My passions are rooted in civic engagement and service, but in order to institute change and cultivate key stakeholder relationships, the hard and soft skills taught within the MPA program has polished my poise, perspective, and approach — granting me greater opportunity to be successful, and in-turn, the community succeeds as well.”
More
More
x
Lisa Grills
"The MPA program at SVSU integrated leadership and personal attention into the foundational classes which allowed me to advance my career to a national level. The faculties in this program are extraordinary."
Close
Lisa Grills
"The MPA program at SVSU integrated leadership and personal attention into the foundational classes which allowed me to advance my career to a national level. The faculties in this program are extraordinary."
More
More
x
Theodore Lind
"The MPA program allowed me to connect with other driven professionals. I was not only able to learn from the amazing faculty, but I was able to leverage the expertise of my peers to have rich classroom discussions. I now have professional skills that are immediately applicable to my work environment."
Close
Theodore Lind
"The MPA program allowed me to connect with other driven professionals. I was not only able to learn from the amazing faculty, but I was able to leverage the expertise of my peers to have rich classroom discussions. I now have professional skills that are immediately applicable to my work environment."
More
CONTACT US.
Graduate Admissions
Wickes Hall 230
gradadm@svsu.edu
(989) 964-6096
Mark Nicol
MPA Program Coordinator
mlnicol@svsu.edu
989-964-2605
Tanika Williams
Graduate Admissions Coordinator
gradadm@svsu.edu
(989) 461-2050

