URL: https://www.svsu.edu/appliedmathbs/

Applied Mathematics (BS)
SVSU
>
College of Science, Engineering & Technology
>
Mathematics
About
The Applied Mathematics major
challenges students to look beyond the formulas
to find answers to real word questions ranging from administrative policies to worldly phenomenon to probability solutions. With individual attention from scholarly faculty,
students thrive in initial calculus courses
before moving on to statistics, actuarial science, numerical analysis and more. Applied Mathematics majors are provided extensive opportunities for
financially supported undergraduate research
and have access to advanced software that
pushes them to accelerate in academia
. SVSU offers up healthy exposure to mathematical competitions, conferences, internships and outreach activities to ensure that each of
these mathematicians rises above their scholastic competitors
to solve the next big problem that comes their way—whether it's at a local, state, national or global level.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
The Department of Mathematical Sciences offers students the opportunity to
conduct undergraduate research
with
faculty guidance
and the
financial support
to carry it out.
Scholarships for Applied Mathematics majors
are offered by the department.
Applied Mathematics majors can
work as tutors in the Math and Physics Tutoring Center
and obtain paid research positions.
SVSU offers
dedicated research space
for faculty-led research projects in mathematics.
Students have access to advanced software
such as Maple CAS, Minitab, SPSS and MATLAB to further grow during their collegiate career.
What You’ll Study
SVSU's Applied Mathematics program features a
strong foundation in calculus
which is emphasized with an initial four-semester differential equations sequence. As they progress, students immerse themselves in
topics that are currently used in applied fields
, such as probability, statistics, actuarial science, numerical analysis and stochastic processes. They are also required to have at least one minor and take a minimum of one computer course to broaden their academic knowledge base. These Applied Mathematics majors
receive an advanced and thoroughly applicable education
to prepare them for wherever their collegiate career leads.
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Complimentary Minors/Majors
Beyond The Books
Community Outreach
The Department of Mathematical Sciences organizes programs for area middle and high school students such as the SVSU Math Tutoring and Mentoring Program, the Summer STEM Opportunities Camp and the annual SVSU Math Olympics competition.
Student Opportunities
Applied Mathematics students can get involved in Math Club and participate in conferences, competitions and networking opportunities.
Software Access
Applied Mathematics students have access to advanced software such as Maple CAS, Minitab, SPSS and MATLAB to further grow and prepare for their field of interest.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Auto-Owners Insurance
Northwestern Mutual
Ally Financial
Quicken Loans
Gateway Financial Solutions
Graduate Programs
Oregon University
Kansas University
Boston University
Career Opportunities
Actuary
Financial Advisor
Data Analyst
Statistician
Research Analyst
After Graduation
26% projected growth
for mathematical science occupations through 2028. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$86,700 is the median annual income
for mathematical science occupations. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s Applied Mathematics program,
students are prepared for a multitude of careers
in the business, science and technology-related sectors.
Cardinal Successes
These stories offer insight into how SVSU students have turned their education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Jenni Putz
Applied Mathematics and Economics Alum
Read more…
News
Read more…
SVSU: Connect
Fully integrated into social networks,
SVSU Connect
is a valuable networking space
dedicated to the community of SVSU students, faculty and alumni which cultivates a culture of helping and giving back. In addition to
connecting with each other
, students at all points along their journey can reach out to alumni mentors for guidance and insight into
making the most of their SVSU experience and successfully transitioning into life after graduation.

