URL: https://www.svsu.edu/art/

Art (BA)
SVSU
>
College of Arts and Behavioral Sciences
>
Art Department
About
The Art program at SVSU equips students with the
knowledge and understanding of the history, theories and techniques of the visual arts
.
The major is wide, ranging from drawing, painting, ceramics, printmaking, sculpture and mural painting to comic and cartoon illustration, photography, web, font and UX design as well as video making and art education. Small class sizes ensure that students will
work closely with their professors
, who are active and accomplished artists. In a friendly, supportive and challenging artistic atmosphere, students will learn with and from fellow students and have opportunities to display their creations alongside the work of other outstanding contemporary artists in the Art Department Gallery. In the SVSU Art program, students will
strengthen their craft as they develop the knowledge and skills to influence and impact our society—challenging and changing the way we see and think about the world
, whether they go on to graduate school or begin their work in an art-related field.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
There are
multiple art-specific scholarships available
for students.
Internships, fieldwork and co-ops
are available for students to
gain real-world experience.
Students have opportunities to s
tudy abroad
in locations
such as
Italy
and China.
O
pportunities for students to have their work exhibited
, including the “
Write Space
” Workshop and Art Contest,
International Sculpture Day
and t
he University Art Department Gallery which displays
student art alongside the work of international artists
.
Visiting artist
lecture and exhibition series for students to engage
with acclaimed artists and their work.
What You’ll Study
The visual arts curriculum at SVSU includes a strong foundation in
art history and diverse media experience
with studio courses in ceramics, graphic design, drawing, painting, photography, printmaking and sculpture. Students will
also be
exposed to the creativity of other outstanding contemporary artists whose works are exhibited in the University Art Department Gallery
, located on the first floor of the Arbury Fine Arts Center
.
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Complementary Minors/Majors
Beyond The Books
Display Student Work in the University Art Department Gallery
Students have opportunities for their work to be displayed in the University Art Department Gallery alongside the work of acclaimed contemporary artists.
Active Student Organizations
Students dive into extracurricular activities such as the Art and Design Creative League, American Institute of Graphic Arts Design Club, Cardinal Photography Students Association, Student Art League and the Comic Strippers Club.
Interdisciplinary Programs for Career Development
Interdisciplinary programs work with multiple departments at SVSU to help lead students to greater career opportunities and development.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Saginaw Valley State University
Yeo & Yeo
Beltran Media
The Blank Frame
Shutter the Thought Photography
Saginaw Township Community Schools
Grand Rapids Public Schools
Graduate Programs
Miami University
University of Ohio
University of Idaho
Career Opportunities
Product Specialist
Design and Marketing Specialist
Graphic Designer
Art Teacher
Photographer
Entrepreneur
School Counselor
Executive Director
After Graduation
8% projected growth
for the employment of multimedia artists and animators with a bachelor’s degree through 2026. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$72,520 is the median yearly pay
for multimedia artists and animators in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s Art program,
students are prepared for a multitude of careers
including government, business, education, publishing and marketing as a
graphic designer
, art director, web designer,
illustrator
, art dealer, photographer,
curator
, gallery director,
painter
, sculptor, printmaker,
muralist, studio owner, art teacher
and so many more.
Cardinal Successes
These stories offer insight into how SVSU students have turned their education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Alison Bur
B.F.A.
Read more…
Shayla Krygier
B.A.
Read more…

