URL: https://www.svsu.edu/healthsciencebs/

Bachelor of Science in Health Science
SVSU
>
College of Health & Human Services
>
Health Science
About
Demand for health professionals ready to compassionately care for patients and tirelessly strive to advance policy and research has steadily increased during the 21st century and is predicted to grow over the next few decades. Saginaw Valley State University has anticipated this surge with our Bachelor of Science in Health Science degree, a multidisciplinary program introducing several career paths through the intersection of science and public health with the goal of graduating resilient, outstanding professionals equipped to adapt to the ever-changing medical field and uplift patients and populations in the process.
Our program attracts a diverse, enthusiastic community of learners and leaders. You’re a dreamer perceiving yourself as someone who revolutionizes healthcare and human services, connects and guides patients, or contributes to the latest medical innovations. You’re an advocate acknowledging that healthcare access remains unequal and passionately assisting others in receiving services. You’re an aspiring researcher who realizes that data fuels progress and new ideas. Collectively,
our department
is captivated by what the medical field can do from clinical and administrative angles and seeks to transform the world through that knowledge.
Considering the spectrum of outcomes, the BS in Health Science degree prepares you for a graduate program of study and eventually a more specialized career through an integrated blend of engaging classroom instruction, unique study abroad opportunities, hands-on internships, fieldwork, and on-campus experiential learning through the state-of-the-art
Simulation Center
, a controlled environment with the goal of strengthening interpersonal communication and improving patient safety. This format provides a broad, multi-sided perspective of health and human services on local, national, and international levels, including the US healthcare system and principles and policies of public health; opens up the chance for undergraduate students to participate in rewarding research; lets you receive guidance and mentorship from published faculty members; and helps you narrow down your career goals through a comprehensive introduction.
At the same time, this bachelor’s in health science allows those with an associate degree from a health technician or assistant program to expand their knowledge; meets prerequisite requirements for medical or dental school or a physical therapy, occupational therapy, or physician assistant program; and creates a firm foundation for pursuing graduate studies in public health, emergency management, gerontology, neuroscience, or healthcare administration.
For more information, contact Department Chair Christine Noller at
hhs@svsu.edu
.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
SVSU's faculty are widely published and have presented internationally,
received numerous research grants
and pride themselves on
including undergraduate students in their research projects
.
Study abroad!
Students have the opportunity to learn about the
health systems of different countries
and apply their knowledge to disaster relief areas.
Internships and fieldwork opportunities are available for students to
gain experience working in the health science field
.
SVSU's Bachand Hall contains a
state-of-the-art Simulation Center
.
What You’ll Study
As a BS in Health Science student, you’ll get a snapshot of everything over the vast spectrum of providing, influencing, and managing care—from the struggles of diverse populations in urban and rural areas to crucial communication skills for administrative roles.
You’ll start with 21 core credits covering general health and human services concepts related to ethics, research methods, medical terminology, information management, policy, cultural competence, and public health principles. To commit to an advanced path of study or career, you’ll then take a series of electives (21 credits for a standard major or 39 for an interdisciplinary major) to specialize your degree here and dedicate yourself to fulfilling any graduate prerequisite
requirements. To illustrate the breadth of your knowledge and its real-world applications, you’ll complete a capstone project during the course of the program.
In studying for your Bachelor’s in Health Science, you’ll:
discover the tools and methods for navigating the US health and human services system;
gain the competencies to advocate for improving the delivery and access of health and human services;
thoroughly understand the field’s ethical and professional conduct standards;
acquire the skills to participate in basic, applied, and translational research; and
devote yourself to an advanced content area in line with your education and career goals.
Learn more about the program’s format, and read all course descriptions.
Whether you select a major with a
complementary minor
or an interdisciplinary major, you’ll earn a minimum of 124 credits, which further include SVSU’s
Basic Skills courses
and
General Education requirements.
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Your Plan for a Successful College Experience
The Cardinal Plan is a unique outline created by faculty for your program at SVSU and serves as a guide for student success.
Complementary Minors
Beyond The Books
Fieldwork
Get a chance to dream, advocate, and research alongside fellow scholars and passionate healthcare professionals through fieldwork customized to your interests and career goals.
Study Abroad
Apply your knowledge in a variety of areas during rewarding study abroad trips ranging from disaster relief zones to health administrations in other countries.
Clubs and Organizations
Hone your leadership abilities and grow your interests while connecting with others like you in the Health Professions Association, Peer Health Education Club, and many other organizations on campus.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Covenant HealthCare
Michigan Eye Institute
MidMichigan Health
Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan
University of Michigan Health Systems
Karmanos Cancer Institute
Autism Centers of Michigan
Insight Global
Residential Options Inc.
Graduate Programs
Saginaw Valley State University
Western Michigan University
University of Michigan
Career Opportunities
Direct Care Worker
Youth Services Worker
Outreach Specialist
Behavioral Therapist
Registered Behavior Technician
Occupational Therapist
Nutrition Educator
After Graduation
How do you see yourself nurturing others while tackling existing challenges within the healthcare system? With a Bachelor’s in Health Science, you have the background to apply to medical or dental school, continue your education in a graduate or professional program elevating your knowledge of healthcare administration, policy, or biomedical science, or jump into a research-, administrative-, or policy-related career.
Take advantage of 32% projected growth for the employment of
medical and health services managers
through 2029. (US Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$99,730 is the median yearly pay for medical and health service managers in the US (US Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s Health Science program, graduates can work in many fields like public health and hospital administration, or continue their education to fulfill positions as doctors or physician assistants.
Cardinal Successes
The stories below offer insight into how our students have turned their SVSU education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Jarrod Eaton
Health Science Alum
Read more…
News
Read more…
SVSU: Connect
Fully integrated into social networks,
SVSU Connect
is a valuable networking space
dedicated to the community of SVSU students, faculty and alumni which cultivates a culture of helping and giving back. In addition to
connecting with each other
, students at all points along their journey can reach out to alumni mentors for guidance and insight into
making the most of their SVSU experience and successfully transitioning into life after graduation.

