URL: https://www.svsu.edu/biologybs/

Bachelor of Science in Biology
SVSU
>
College of Science, Engineering & Technology
>
Biology
About
The natural world captivates you with its multifaceted presence. Below the surface, every layer you peel back reveals innovative processes and interactions all the way from the cellular level to large ecosystems home to several species. Even something deceptively familiar beckons you to explore and tackle a new challenge. If you’re passionate about nature and its organisms and have dedicated yourself to learning more, begin the next stage of your journey with a Bachelor of Science in Biology degree from Saginaw Valley State University.
We approach our surroundings much like you do. The seemingly mundane aspects of life are rife with intricacies ready for scientific discovery. The BS in Biology program opens a window to the plethora of possibilities, in the classroom, laboratory, and SVSU’s ecological research areas. An introductory curriculum connecting biology to chemistry and physics creates a gateway to studying the natural world and the diverse, complex processes composing life. From this solid, versatile
framework, you’ll select an area of interest to specialize your knowledge of biology’s multiple disciplines and applications. As our department guides your scholarly endeavors, we consider how your scientific interests and enthusiasm for discovery translate into a career or advanced education, and in turn, courses, laboratory work, and fieldwork serve as a key stepping stone to medical school, a graduate program in biology, or an entry-level research position.
Considering the myriad of paths, the
Department of Biology
strives to shepherd your success in the right direction. Small class sizes allow for more personalized instruction from our esteemed faculty members, themselves crucial to the university’s research and development and prepared to point you toward projects and more enriching opportunities that not only interest you but provide a chance to apply your knowledge in a hands-on setting.
In fostering a supportive, engaging environment, our department emphasizes real-world training as the bridge toward your future. This commitment starts with our modern laboratories and state-of-the-art equipment and extends to the
Saginaw Bay Environmental Science Institute
and
Wetlands Preserve
for biological fieldwork and
organizations
like Biology Club and the Health Professions Association.
For more information, contact Department Chair Dr. Arthur Martin at
almarti2@svsu.edu
.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
SVSU's 782-acre campus also contains an
ecological research area
where a variety of biological fieldwork is performed.
SVSU established the
Saginaw Bay Environmental Science Institute
which focuses on the environmental science and citizenry of the Saginaw Bay area and features
a strong pool of student interns
.
SVSU has a Wetlands Preserve
which provides a natural habitat for wildlife,
including rare birds
, and serves as an educational facility for biology students and professors.
Biology majors have the chance to be
one of 10 students
accepted into the Roberts Fellowship Program which is a leadership development initiative that
culminates in a trip to Asia.
What You’ll Study
Biology doesn’t exist in a vacuum. It intertwines with other natural sciences and, at the same time, is divided among botany, environmental, evolutionary, medical, molecular, cellular, genetic, and zoology disciplines. Our bachelor’s degree in biology reflects this structure. As a student declaring your major, you’ll start to fulfill your ambitions through introductory courses in biology, chemistry, and physics.
This baseline supplies you with the tools and investigation skills to advance onto higher-level courses angled toward medical content and research. From here, you’ll reach a crossroads where you’ll be expected to select from one of four majors based on potential career outcomes:
Biological Science
, for broad training across the vast and exciting spectrum of disciplines;
Cell Biology, Molecular Biology, and Biomedical Sciences
, ideal if you’re striving toward medical school and eventually a career in medicine or another health profession;
Evolution, Ecology, Organismal Biology
, a course of study emphasizing fieldwork in preparation for an outdoors-based career in conservation and restoration; and
Biology Major for Teacher Certification
, which translates your passion into a career instructing and motivating students at the secondary level.
Explore all paths of study
to chart out your route from school into the workforce.
In considering your goals and the layout of the Bachelor’s in Biology degree, SVSU requires all undergraduate students to complete a minimum of 124 credits across their major,
Basic Skills courses
,
General Education requirements
, and
second major or minor
. Those selecting this program will take 33 credits of required courses, 28 credits toward their major, and 12 credits of electives.
Review the structure and all course descriptions
.
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Complementary Minors/Majors
Beyond The Books
Student Organizations
Explore biology while gaining leadership skills by participating in department extracurricular activities, such as Biology Club and the Health Professions Association.
Science and Engineering Symposium
Engage the public and showcase your work and knowledge at this event involving 50 research presentations and student discussions.
Interdisciplinary Student Employment
Continue to build your skills through the department’s paid student employment opportunities, which include preparing materials for teaching laboratories, animal care, stockroom monitoring, and other experiences across a variety of areas.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Spectrum Health Medical Group
Aleda E. Lutz VA Medical Center
The Dow Chemical Company
VCA Clinton Township
Evergreen Physical Therapy
Graduate Programs
University of Michigan
Michigan State University
Career Opportunities
Physician of Infectious Diseases
Medical Technologist
R&D Technologist
Licensed Veterinary Technician
Pharmacy Manager
Physical Therapist/Clinic Director
After Graduation
6% projected growth
for employment of biological science teachers through 2026. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$49,021 is the median yearly pay
for a biologist in the U.S. in 2019. (Glassdoor.com Salaries)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s biology program,
students are ready for a multitude of careers
including those that take place in industry and laboratories, private research institutions, public health departments, state and federal governments, and colleges and universities.
Cardinal Successes
These stories offer insight into how SVSU students have turned their education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Cole Pero
Read more…
Miranda Strasburg
Read more…
SVSU: Connect
Fully integrated into social networks,
SVSU Connect
is a valuable networking space
dedicated to the community of SVSU students, faculty and alumni which cultivates a culture of helping and giving back. In addition to
connecting with each other
, students at all points along their journey can reach out to alumni mentors for guidance and insight into
making the most of their SVSU experience and successfully transitioning into life after graduation.

