URL: https://www.svsu.edu/exercisesciencebs/

Bachelor of Science in Exercise Science
SVSU
>
College of Health & Human Services
> OLD Kinesiology
About
We know that exercise benefits the body. You feel that rush of endorphins each day you begin your routine. With time, your focus and determination manifest as increased strength, and you find yourself pushing your boundaries—going farther than before or working against more resistance. But, what does exercise actually do to the body? More importantly, how does physical fitness extend from enjoyment to an activity designed to nurture and support your long-term health?
That’s the goal of Saginaw Valley State University’s Bachelor of Science in Exercise Science degree. This multidisciplinary program explores the science behind movement and the impact physical activity has on health, fitness, and athletics. As a discipline, exercise health finds its roots in the life sciences. After enrolling, your journey begins with a broad introduction to chemistry, biology, and physics before you discover how human movement influences a person’s daily performance, from their fitness routine to their overall quality of life.
This knowledge prepares you for a career promoting wellness and exercise as a tool of disease and injury prevention. Our program’s dynamic curriculum covers the scope to become an ACSM Health/Fitness Instructor or NSCA Certified Strength and Conditioning Specialist.
Experiential learning allows you to observe engaged professionals, practice the theories introduced in the classroom, and begin promoting the benefits of exercise. The
Department of Exercise Science
integrates hands-on applications into the curriculum. Internships and practicum assignments let students grow and build meaningful connections while assisting sports teams, clinical staff, or community organizations. On campus,
interactive environments
, including SVSU’s state-of-the-art laboratory space and classrooms, let you continue practicing your skills. Gain valuable, inspirational insights while participating in research led by our department’s award-winning faculty, or strive to uplift the surrounding community through service learning opportunities.
For more information, contact Department Chair David Berry at
dcberry@svsu.edu
.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
This program
offers service-learning activities
which includes working closely with
hospitals, clinics and community partners
throughout the Great Lakes Bay Region.
Students consistently have the opportunity to
work with faculty members
to participate
in the research process
, including the
presentation and publication of research
findings.
Students have access to a
state-of-the-art laboratory space
which includes, but is not limited to a
BodPod, metabolic carts, ECG equipment,
treadmills,
cycle ergometers
, ultrasound machines and
TENS stimulators.
The Exercise Science major
prepares students to meet specific competencies
set forth by the
American College of Sports Medicine
(ACSM) and the
National Strength and Conditioning Association
(NSCA).
What You’ll Study
Considering a career where you’ll guide others’ health through a mix of science and exercise? Students entering SVSU with this outlook are advised to declare their major as pre-exercise science. After satisfactorily completing two introductory kinesiology courses, you’ll fill out a program application.
We value our students’ growth and progress and seek to empower them in the working world. Reflecting this, the curriculum for the Bachelor’s in Exercise Science follows guidelines for information, breadth, and hands-on learning specified by the American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) and the National Strength and Conditioning Association (NSCA).
In turn, BS in Exercise Science students acquire a strong foundation in chemistry, biology, and physics. Field-based assignments supplement classroom instruction. Collaborate and learn from a variety of populations and environments while applying exercise testing, exercise prescription, programming, and nutrition principles and using the latest technologies.
We want you to feel prepared for the rigors of the program and recommend all pre-exercise science majors dedicate part of their prerequisite courses to statistics, psychology, critical writing, and physics. Building upon this foundation, the program’s required courses (52 credits) and electives (9 credits) highlight the field’s scientific, research, business, and psychological sides, and you’ll further hone your skills in a 240-hour internship assignment. Based on where you envision your future career, consider pursuing an assignment at a health club, community or corporate fitness program, medical, or clinical site.
Once enrolled, expect an engaging curriculum designed to challenge you and stir excitement every time you’re in the classroom, a simulated environment, or out in the field. Setting the stage for your career, you’ll start by learning the sciences behind movement, including experimental biology, physiology, and anatomy, before you acquire skills in:
first aid;
recognizing, managing, and preventing sports injuries;
kinesiology and functional anatomy;
teaching and assessing physical fitness;
prescribing exercise-based treatment plans;
a
dministering fitness programs and overseeing facilities;
nutrition in relation to physical activity;
m
otor learning and development; and
adapting exercise programs to acute and chronic conditions.
Review the degree program’s structure and all course descriptions
.
To earn a minimum of 124 credits, you’ll complete a minor in addition to coursework for the exercise science major,
Basic Skills component
, and General Education requirements
.
Katie Nixon from Byron Michigan, is using her UGRP study grant to research the effects of the "DuneStepper" on recreational runners. The study is searching for evidence of improved overall balance after using the exercise device.
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Your Plan for a Successful College Experience
The Cardinal Plan is a unique outline created by faculty for your program at SVSU and serves as a guide for student success.
Complementary Minors/Majors
Beyond The Books
Internships, Fieldwork & Co-Ops
Within the region, many businesses and organizations offer clinical experiences to SVSU students, including health clubs, community and corporate fitness programs, and medical or clinical sites such as cardiac rehabilitation centers.
State-of-the-Art Facilities
Practice and expand your perspective of exercise science concepts in SVSU’s state-of-the-art facilities, including classrooms, a movement analysis laboratory, and a human performance laboratory.
Student Organizations
Immerse yourself in the field of Exercise Science by participating in extracurricular activities such as the Pre-Physical Therapy and Pre-Chiropractic Clubs and the Student Exercise Science Association.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Dow
Mary Free Bed Rehabilitation Hospital
Memorial Healthcare
YMCA
Anytime Fitness
Saginaw Valley State University
Michigan Fitness Foundation
Covenant HealthCare Hospital
MidMichigan Medical Center
Sarah Fechter Fitness
Graduate Programs
Central Michigan University
University of Michigan
Michigan State University
University of Dayton
Palmer College of Chiropractic
Wake Forest University
Penn State University
Grand Valley State University
Ball State University
Northwestern University
University of South Carolina
Career Opportunities
Nutritionist
Physical Therapist
Occupational Therapist
Strength and Conditioning Coach
Certified Personal Trainer
Assistant Professor of Kinesiology
Director of Campus Recreation
Cardiac Rehabilitation Technician
Wellness Specialist
Athletic Coach
Wellness Coach
After Graduation
Find your calling as someone who energizes and motivates others while extolling the benefits of wellness and a healthy lifestyle. With this knowledge, your career can take a multitude of directions. Enrich the field in a research or teaching role, or assist patients directly in sports medicine, cardiac rehabilitation, public health organizations, corporate or community fitness centers, health and fitness clubs, personal training, athletic coaching, or a clinical or hospital environment.
To further your career and education, SVSU’s Bachelor’s in Exercise Science prepares you for several professional and graduate programs, including in physical therapy, occupational therapy, athletic training, or to become a physician assistant.
11% projected growth for the employment of
exercise physiologists
with a bachelor’s degree through 2026. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
16% projected growth for the employment of
athletic trainers
with a bachelor’s degree through 2026. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a degree from SVSU’s Bachelor’s in Exercise Science program, students are prepared for a career as a physical therapist, personal trainer, dietician, exercise physiologist, coach, or athletic trainer in the public or private sectors.
SVSU: Connect
Fully integrated into social networks,
SVSU Connect
is a valuable networking space
dedicated to the community of SVSU students, faculty and alumni which cultivates a culture of helping and giving back. In addition to
connecting with each other
, students at all points along their journey can reach out to alumni mentors for guidance and insight into
making the most of their SVSU experience and successfully transitioning into life after graduation.

