URL: https://www.svsu.edu/environmentalstudiessustainabilityba/

Bachelor of Arts Environmental Studies and Sustainability
SVSU
>
College of Arts and Behavioral Sciences
>
Environmental Studies and Sustainability
About
As an Environmental Studies & Sustainability (ESS) major, in the Geography Department, you will gain a comprehensive understanding of human interaction within the natural environment by taking courses in the social sciences, natural sciences, and humanities. SVSU's campus is located in the Saginaw River watershed among a mix of agricultural, urban, and natural systems. This will allow you to interact and work with professionals in the field and learn about important environmental issues.
ESS majors will be prepared for careers in soil and water science, environmental planning, conservation, and geospatial analysis.
What should you choose — Environmental Science or Environmental Studies & Sustainability?
ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES & SUSTAINABILITY (ESS)
This program focuses more on the social sciences but links them with natural sciences to prepare students for careers in planning, policy, geospatial analysis and conservation. ESS pairs well with a minor in biology, political science, international studies, communications, professional and technical writing or business. An environmental studies & sustainability major is a good fit if you’re interested in a career in sustainability coordination, environmental education or environmental law.
ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (ES) »
This program focuses on the physical sciences and solving environmental problems with ecological and analytical tools. Coursework centers around biology, chemistry and geography. If you’re thinking about a career in natural resources management, environmental toxicology, or energy systems, this is the major for you.
Contact:
Dr. Martin Arford at
mrarford@svsu.edu
or (989) 964-2074
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
Study in our backyard
— the heart of the Saginaw Bay watershed. Students gain
hands-on, real-world experience
that will help them meet environmental needs
within
the Great Lakes region and beyond.
The Department of Labor predicts that jobs in the
environmental studies field will grow by 8%
through 2030.
Students
have the opportunity
to intern with the Saginaw Bay Environmental Science Institute or with many partners in the region.
What You’ll Study
The Bachelor of Arts in Environmental Studies and Sustainability (ESS) offers a multi-disciplinary array of courses, with a focus on social sciences, to prepare students for environmental jobs and graduate studies. Students will gain a solid foundation of knowledge in human-environmental systems and issues, data analysis, field skills, political/economic systems, writing, and communication. Graduates will be prepared for careers in planning, policy, geospatial analysis and conservation in the governmental, nonprofit and private sectors. A minor outside the Geography Department is required. The GIS certificate program is strongly recommended in addition to a minor.
View detailed program requirements for Environmental Studies and Sustainability
.
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Beyond The Books
Green Cardinal Initiative
Brainstorm with faculty and staff to develop creative ways to ensure a more sustainable future through methods such as vermiculture, which uses trash to create organic fertilizer.
Shiawassee National Wildlife Refuge
Just minutes from campus, students can study and explore one of Michigan's largest and most productive wetland ecosystems.
Faculty Mentored Research
Take part in and learn from faculty-directed research and present your findings at national and international conferences.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Internships & Regional Employment:
Bay City State Recreation Area
Bay County Mosquito
Central Michigan CISMA
Chippewa Nature Center
Little Forks Conservancy
Huron Pines
Midland Conservation District
Midland County GIS
Midland County Mosquito
Saginaw Basin Land Conservancy
Saginaw Bay Cooperative Invasive Species Mgmt. Area
Shiawassee National Wildlife Refuge
Spicer Group
Wade Trim
Additional Employment Opportunities:
State of Michigan
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy
Michigan State University Institute of Water Research
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Private industry (land surveying, community planning, consulting)
Non-profit organizations (nature centers, conservancies, advocacy groups)
Career Opportunities
With a bachelor’s degree in environmental studies, students may pursue careers in education, business, government, political organizations, nonprofit associations, private consulting firms, journalism, communications, land conservancies, nature centers or parks.
Graduates who are looking to further their knowledge and expertise may choose to enter graduate degree programs such as environmental planning, resource management, engineering, law or public policy.
Careers Opportunities:
Environmental Consultant / Education
Public Relations Specialist
Environmental Policy Analyst  / Legislative Advocate
Community / Environmental Planning
Natural Resource Management
Conservation Scientist / Naturalist
Urban & Regional Planning / Habitat Restoration
Technical Environmental Writer / Communications Specialist
Cartographer/GIS/Remote Sensing Specialist
National/State Park Ranger or Guide
Conservation Specialist / Technician
Eco-tourism Guide
Environmental Researcher
Environmental Manager / Program Coordinator
Water Resources Manager / Specialist
Environmental / Invasive Species Technician
After Graduation
8% projected growth
for employment of environmental scientists and specialists with a bachelor’s degree through 2030. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$73,230 is the median yearly pay
for environmental scientists and specialists in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
SVSU: Connect
Fully integrated into social networks,
SVSU Connect
is a valuable networking space
dedicated to the community of SVSU students, faculty and alumni which cultivates a culture of helping and giving back. In addition to
connecting with each other
, students at all points along their journey can reach out to alumni mentors for guidance and insight into
making the most of their SVSU experience and successfully transitioning into life after graduation.
Admissions staff have been informed of your interest in this program and will reach out soon!
Would you like more information?
Submit

