URL: https://www.svsu.edu/nursingbsn/

Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN)
About
NEW! Enroll in our Part-Time BSN Program and finish in as little as 3 years!
Learn More:
nursing@svsu.edu
or call (989) 964-4517
Those that know you well describe you as caring, nurturing, and compassionate—but also as dedicated, persevering, and a technical problem solver. If you see yourself uplifting and advocating for others in a hospital or another clinical setting, Saginaw Valley State University’s Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) degree speaks directly to your interests and translates your passion into a rewarding career through a physical and behavioral sciences–rooted curriculum emphasizing meaningful clinical experiences.
Demand for a BSN degree continues to grow. SVSU’s Bachelor of Science in Nursing positions you to unlock these opportunities and build the connections to get there. Upon acceptance into the program, you’ll learn to provide diligent care and encouragement to patients, families, and communities as you and your fellow nursing students progress together as a cohort. Our rigorous curriculum stresses the importance of real-world preparation from the beginning: to equip you for your future career, the College of Health and Human Services’s
state-of-the-art simulation laboratory
lets you try out and refine your newly acquired knowledge on a wide array of high-fidelity mannequins, under the guidance of our esteemed faculty.
Clinical experience
, internships, and our
study abroad program
expose you to a range of professional environments and allow you to practice what you’ve recently learned.
Through broad, comprehensive preparation, the
Department of Nursing
strives to graduate strong, effective problem-solvers who elevate the standard of care provided to patients. For this reason, entry into SVSU’s BSN program is competitive, and the department looks for motivated, well-rounded candidates. Students interested in this pathway begin with general education and pre-nursing requirements and then
apply for acceptance
into the BSN program during the final semester of this preparatory sequence.
Review all admission requirements and prerequisites
.
Once accepted, you’ll spend the next two and a half years devoting yourself to engaging clinical and internship experiences and a curriculum designed to prepare you to take the National Council Licensure Examination–Registered Nurse (NCLEX-RN).
For more information, contact the Department of Nursing at
nursing@svsu.edu
or
apply for acceptance
today!
Ranked One of The Top 5 Best Nursing School in Michigan
by RNCareers.org!
Each year, RNCareers.org evaluates over 1,700 nursing schools to compile its merit-based rankings. Factors include program accreditation, tuition costs, academic excellence, faculty qualifications, student satisfaction, program offerings, career outcomes, and school reputation.
Nursing Application
Virtual Info Session
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
The baccalaureate degree program in nursing at Saginaw Valley State University is accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education. Learn More »
SVSU has a state-of-the-art simulation laboratory and it's
one of only four accredited Simulation Centers in Michigan
by the Society for Simulation in Healthcare.
SVSU accepts 96 students into the nursing program every fall and winter semester which makes the nursing admission process
competitive for well-qualified candidates
.
The program has mentors and tutors available to
help students make the transition as professional nursing students
during the nursing program.
Earn Your SVSU BSN Close to Home
Alpena Community College
Bay College
Delta College
Kirtland Community College
Montcalm Community College
See complete list
What You’ll Study
As a BSN student, you’ll develop key relationship, communication, and advocacy tools and learn to inspire patients and families.
Providing you with a firm foundation are the pre-nursing courses, completed as part of your
Basic Skills
and
General Education requirements
. Subjects covering chemistry, biology, statistics, physiology, sociology, anatomy, nutrition, and psychology get you ready for the clinical, patient care, and technical demands of the BSN curriculum and further strengthen your written and oral communication abilities.
Once you’re accepted into the BSN program, you’ll complete 66 credits of nursing courses along with four credits of upper-division electives. Angled toward your aspirations, you’ll become familiar with the principles of pharmacology and pathophysiology, learn to conduct health assessments, and gain a more detailed understanding of chronic and acute conditions. From the classroom into the simulated labs and through your clinical experiences, you’ll see how nurses provide, coordinate, and manage care, better understand the human experience, and begin to develop your professional identity.
Throughout, the BSN curriculum emphasizes strategic thinking, conflict resolution, health promotion, diversity, evidence-based practices, legal factors, and care management and addresses a spectrum of health care environments. Advanced courses integrate simulation labs, helping you practice your skills in a safe, controlled environment.
Along with classroom learning and hands-on experience in the simulation labs, you’ll be assigned to a clinical site. Placements include public health departments, clinics, outpatient and surgery centers, and regional medical centers. These experiences serve to expand and strengthen your technical and clinical knowledge, refine your patient interactions, and cultivate connections to boost your career. At the same time, they fulfill SVSU’s mission of service learning and addressing the needs of local and global communities.
In total, you’ll complete 124 credits to earn your degree. As the BSN is an interdisciplinary program, a second major or minor is not required.
I’ve gained so much experience. You are able to apply what you learn in the classroom and experience it firsthand. It makes everything click.
(
Read More
)
— JuJuan Cook
Nursing BSN '22
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Beyond The Books
Clinicals
SVSU's Nursing Clinical Coordinator places students at over 75 agencies statewide, including Bay County Department of Public Health, Covenant Health Care, HealthSource, Home and Hospice Advantage, Mid Michigan Health, St. Mary's of Michigan, and many more.
Veteran Affairs (VA) Nursing Academic Partnership
SVSU and the Aleda E. Lutz Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Saginaw have an ongoing academic partnership that provides clinical and simulated experiences for nursing students, along with many other benefits and opportunities.
Active Student Organizations
Connect and grow with other nursing students in extracurricular activities such as Sigma Theta Tau and the Student Nurses Association.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Children's Hospital of Michigan
Covenant HealthCare
Spectrum Health
Children's Hospital of Wisconsin
Ascension
McLaren Health Care
MidMichigan Health
VA Medical Center
U of M Hospital
Munson Medical Center
Public Health Departments
Home Care Agencies
Graduate Programs
Saginaw Valley State University
Career Opportunities
Home Health Nurse
Public Health Nurse
Nurse Associate
Mental Health Nurse
Registered Nurse
Registered Nurse, Neonatal Intensive Care Unit
Emergency Department Nurse
After Graduation
An increasing aging population has fueled demand for health care professionals, including registered nurses. The BSN qualifies you to sit for the NCLEX-RN to be certified and practice as a registered nurse.
With this credential and the enriching, multifaceted education you’ve received, you’re positioned to assist patients and promote effective care in clinics, hospitals, outpatient settings, senior centers, mental health facilities, public health departments, surgery centers, home health agencies, and hospital education institutions. Furthermore, with a bachelor’s degree, you have the background to continue your education, broaden your skills, and hone your leadership abilities in a Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) program.
7% projected growth for the employment of a registered nurse
with a bachelor’s degree through 2029. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$71,730 is the median yearly pay for a registered nurse in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s BSN program, you’re prepared to work as a registered nurse in a variety of environments or attend graduate school to become an advanced practice registered nurse, such as a nurse practitioner, nurse anesthetist, nurse educator, or nurse administrator.
Cardinal Successes
These stories offer insight into how SVSU students have turned their education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Heather Harvey
Nursing Alum
Read more…
Haley Ludviksen
Nursing Major
Read more…
SVSU: Connect
Fully integrated into social networks,
SVSU Connect
is a valuable networking space
dedicated to the community of SVSU students, faculty and alumni which cultivates a culture of helping and giving back. In addition to
connecting with each other
, students at all points along their journey can reach out to alumni mentors for guidance and insight into
making the most of their SVSU experience and successfully transitioning into life after graduation.

