URL: https://www.svsu.edu/biochemistrybs/

Biochemistry (BS)
SVSU
>
College of Science, Engineering & Technology
>
Biochemistry
About
The science of life is tied to the
flow of chemical energy
. As a biochemist,
students will dive into that world through research
—discovering ways to maintain life and advancing new methods to save it. At SVSU, the biochemistry program and its professors offer an education like no other. Here,
students will gain confidence
in laboratory skills, and they'll learn from the success and failures of
conducting their own research
. Students will perform experiments, track progress and present findings—not only at the
regional leve
l but also on the
national stage
. The Biochemistry program offers smaller classes and highly invested faculty who train students not only in knowledge but also in
advanced laboratory skills
. As a Cardinal, students will discover there’s no better place to learn how to conduct their own research and to help differentiate themselves from the competition.
Because, at SVSU, the study of life is also a study of students and their passions.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
SVSU connects students with
elite in-hospital programs
such as the
Medical Scribes Program
with Covenant Hospital.
Biochemistry students enjoy a
95 percent placement rate
after graduation.
Students have opportunities to
s
tudy abroad
in Europe and Asia.
SVSU's instructional facilities feature
modern and well-equipped laboratories
that have major equipment available to ensure advance research opportunities for students.
A recent
$300,000 award from the Office of Great Lakes
supports cutting edge research in
measuring microbial DNA in local waterways.
What You’ll Study
The Biochemistry major at SVSU includes rigorous, in-depth study of
organic and physical chemistry
, quantitative and instrumental analysis as well as the principles of experimental biology in fields such as
botany and zoology
. However, classroom learning is only part of a student's education. Experiencing
real-life situations
, sharing knowledge, learning from leadership, gaining skills,
working in state of the art labs
and
conducting research
are all a part of what it means to study chemistry—and what it means to be an SVSU Biochemistry student.
As part of her Undergraduate Research Program project (UGRP), Erica L Behnfeldt, of Fenton, MI, is researching the effects that microplastics in the environment could affect single-celled organisms.
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Your Plan for a Successful College Experience
The Cardinal Plan is a unique outline created by faculty for your program at SVSU and serves as a guide for student success.
Complementary Minors/Majors
Beyond The Books
Green Cardinal Initiative
Students, faculty and staff at SVSU brainstorm and act upon creative ways to ensure a more sustainable future through methods such as vermiculture, which uses trash to create organic fertilizer.
Active Student Organizations
The Chemistry Club has been specially recognized as an “Outstanding Chapter” and as a “Commendable Chapter.”
Researching the Kawkawlin River
In a first time collaborative effort between Delta College and SVSU, students gather 48 samples each week from the Kawkawlin River to the Saginaw Bay, as well as some of the bigger channels.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Dow Chemical Company
Dow DuPont
Covenant HealthCare
Ingredion Incorporated
Neogen Corporation
AbbVie
BASF
Nexteer Automotive
Michigan State Plice
Spicer Group
Graduate Programs
Michigan State University
University of Michigan
Central Michigan University
University of Colorado
University of Connecticut
University of Detroit Mercy
Ferris State University
Career Opportunities
Quality Control Analyst
Reference Material Specialist
Quality Systems Specialist
Analytical Technologist
Toxicokinetics Technologist
Pharmaceutical Scientist
Air Quality Analyst
Pharmacist
Physician
Environmental Scientist
Pharmaceutical Research
Forensic Scientist
After Graduation
11% projected growth
for employment of biochemists and biophysicists with a Bachelor’s degree through 2026. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$93,280 is the median yearly pay
for a biochemist or biophysicist in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s Biochemistry program,
students are prepared for a multitude of careers
at the state and federal level of government, environmental protection agencies, hospital administration, biotechnology firms as well as opportunities in food processing, pharmaceuticals and university research.
Cardinal Successes
These stories offer insight into how SVSU students have turned their education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
April Lukowski
Read more…
Mackenzie Allen
Read more…
SVSU: Connect
Fully integrated into social networks,
SVSU Connect
is a valuable networking space
dedicated to the community of SVSU students, faculty and alumni which cultivates a culture of helping and giving back. In addition to
connecting with each other
, students at all points along their journey can reach out to alumni mentors for guidance and insight into
making the most of their SVSU experience and successfully transitioning into life after graduation.

