URL: https://www.svsu.edu/blackstudies/

Black Studies
SVSU
>
College of Arts and Behavioral Sciences
>
Black Studies
About
The Black Studies major at SVSU provides students with an interdisciplinary education that emphasizes intellectual growth and consciousness, scholarly inquiry and production, and cooperation, responsibility and leadership within the community. At its root this degree is grounded in the African Diaspora and advances academic excellence and social responsibility.
Students who earn a degree in Black Studies will have diverse employment opportunities in the public and private sector. Drawing on courses from the departments of Communication, Criminal Justice, English, History, Political Science, Rhetoric and Professional Writing, and Sociology, the program helps students develop intellectual, creative and analytical skills that will serve them well in any career.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department Page
Cardinal Points
Did you know? As a formal academic program, Black Studies began at San Francisco State College in 1968.
"Black Studies is the critical and systematic study of the thought and practice of African people in their current and historical unfolding." - Dr. Maulana Karenga, activist, author and professor of Africana
Black Studies at SVSU is focused on cultural grounding, academic excellence and social responsibility.
Students may obtain a
minor in Black Studies
in conjunction with a major in any area of study.
Everyone was tremendously supportive. The importance of that can't be understated.
— Ashley Woodson, Ph.D.
BA Communication, minor in Black Studies, SVSU '07
Dean of the School for Public Purpose and Professional Advancement
Albion College
What You’ll Study
Black Studies at SVSU examines the full spectrum of the African Diaspora and provides the breadth of study and experience to deepen students’ understanding and knowledge of our local communities and larger world, challenges students to consider their place and responsibility in it, and enhances, strengthens, and expands their critical skills, vision, and confidence to succeed in our world.
Black Studies at SVSU emphasizes three areas of development:
Intellectual growth and consciousness through instruction and thoughtful analysis of sources and experiential learning
Scholarly inquiry and production which demonstrates knowledge, creativity, and analysis
Implementation, demonstration, sharing, cooperation, responsibility, and leadership within our communities
These three areas of development are in keeping with and reflect the three areas of focus for the larger mission of the Black Studies discipline: cultural grounding, academic excellence, and social responsibility.
After taking all the courses for the Black studies minor at SVSU, I feel more prepared to teach history in more than one perspective, one that reflects the students in my future classrooms.
— Ashley Arlt, '22
Secondary Education, Social Studies with minor in Black Studies
Highlighted Courses
BLS 100 - Introduction to Black Studies
BLS 499 - Black Studies Capstone
GEOG 311 - Geography of Africa
HIST 319 - African-American History
HIST 326 - The Black Freedom Struggle 1941-PRESENT
HIST 380 - Historical Geography of Africa
SOC 111 - Introduction to Sociology or SOC 112! - Introduction to Anthropology
SOC 341 - African American Cultures
SOC 365 - Modern Africa
Key Electives
BLS 490 - Special Topics in Black Studies
CJ 381 - Social Justice
COMM 455 - Intercultural Communication
ENGL 204 - Thematic Approaches to Literature
ENGL 205 - Studies in World Literature
ENGL 307 - Ethnic Literature in the U.S.
HIST 110! - Themes in Modern History
HIST 382 - History of the African Diaspora
PS 270 - Race & U.S. Political System
PS 327 - Equal Protection & Race Discrimination
PS 392 - Politics & Policies of Cities & Suburbs
RPW 368 - Cultural Rhetorics
SOC 300 - Social Inequal & Human Diversity
SOC 340 - Black Women in America
SOC 420 - Social Strat: Power, Inequality Society
Beyond The Books
Black Studies Research Team
Within its mission, Black Studies emphasizes scholarly inquiry and production which demonstrates and applies knowledge, creativity, and analysis. The Black Studies Research Team supports research projects that reflect this focus and mission.
International Education Week
Celebrate the benefits of international education and exchange worldwide
Multicultural Student Organizations
Organization of Black Unity, African Students Union, and international Student Club host events to showcase students from diverse backgrounds
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Black Studies graduates are employed in a diverse range of employment and are engaged in a wide range of professional experiences.
Graduate Programs
Cornell University
Eastern Michigan University
Emory University
Florida International University
Michigan State University
Northwestern University
Ohio State University
Temple University
University of Kansas
University of Illinois
Wayne State University
Career Opportunities
A degree in Black Studies offers enormous professional opportunities and careers in fields such as the law, social justice, advocacy, community engagement, education, teaching, student affairs, research, analysis, social work, human resources, environmental justice, healthcare, housing policy, transportation policy, journalism, nonprofits, NGO, organizer, social entrepreneurship, social venture, marketing, business/corporate responsibility, government work, public policy, public administrator, elected office, community planning, public affairs, health services, and human resources.
SVSU: Connect
Fully integrated into social networks,
SVSU Connect
is a valuable networking space
dedicated to the community of SVSU students, faculty and alumni which cultivates a culture of helping and giving back. In addition to
connecting with each other
, students at all points along their journey can reach out to alumni mentors for guidance and insight into
making the most of their SVSU experience and successfully transitioning into life after graduation.

