URL: https://www.svsu.edu/endorsements/cognitiveimpairment/

Autism Spectrum Disorder
Biology
Central Office (District-level)
Chemistry
Cognitive Impairment
Early Childhood Education
Economics
Educational Technology
Elementary Level
Principalship
English as a Second Language
English
French
Geography
History
Integrated Science Education
Language Arts
Learning Disabilities
Mathematics
Music Education
Physical Education
Physics
Political Science
Reading Specialist
Secondary Level
Social Studies
Secondary-Level (6-12) Social Studies Endorsement
Spanish
Speech (Communication and Theatre)
Visual Arts Education
SVSU
/
Endorsements
/
Cognitive Impairment
Cognitive Impairment (K-12 Level)
Endorsement:
Cognitive Impairment
Endorsement Code:
SA
Available To:
Elementary-level certified teachers
Secondary-level Certified Teachers
Description of Endorsement:
The Cognitive Impairment (SA) endorsement allows elementary and secondary-level certified teachers to teach in K-12 special education resource rooms and Cognitive Impairment programs. They can teach the entire K-12 curriculum to their special education students as approved by the local school board and intermediate school district, provided they have satisfied the No Child Left Behind (NCLB) and Individuals with Disabilities Education Improvement Act of 2004 (IDEIA) requirements for a Highly Qualified teacher in core academic areas for which they provide direct instruction.  The College of Education will recommend teachers for the K-12 Cognitive Impairment endorsement upon successful completion of all required coursework and the Michigan Test for Teacher Certification (MTTC) Cognitive Impairment subject-area test: secondary-level certified teachers must also pass the MTTC Elementary Education Test.
(The 500 and 600-level courses required for this endorsement may be used toward the Master of Arts in Teaching - Special Education degree program. All coursework toward a graduate degree must be completed within a seven year period.)
Associated MTTC Test:
056 Cognitive Impairment
(Students should indicate SVSU Institution Code #24 when registering for the MTTC test.)
Required Coursework:
To add this endorsement to an existing teaching certificate select the following link for a list of required courses.
Cognitive Impairment K-12
To avoid taking courses not needed, students are encouraged to first meet with a
College of Education Certification Advisor
to review undergraduate coursework and determine a plan of study.
Upon completion of all program requirements, students must submit a completed endorsement application on the MOECS website at
http://www.michigan.gov/moecs
to add this endorsement to their teaching certificate.
While the above information represents the most current advising information available, be aware that certain factors may change affecting the validity of this information, such as changes mandated by the Michigan Department of Education. For this reason, students are STRONGLY advised to consult a certification advisor frequently throughout the duration of their program.
Last Updated: March 6, 2024

