URL: https://www.svsu.edu/cis/

Computer Information Systems (BS)
SVSU
>
College of Science, Engineering & Technology
>
Computer Science & Information Systems
Toggle navigation
Meet A Cardinal
Program Requirements
Course Sequence
Career Options
CSIS Department
About
The applications of a computer information systems degree extend to
every sector of life
. From business to healthcare to education and entertainment—information systems support the very fabric of society.
At SVSU, we prepare students
to design, implement and maintain those systems. With the CIS degree, students will apply the programming world to a variety of industries, control corporate databases and develop new information systems.
Students are encouraged
to develop a robust understanding of both programming and project management so that they are prepared for a career as a developer, an entrepreneur or both—
the choice is up to each Cardinal.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
Multiple scholarships are available
to students majoring in Computer Information Systems.
Students are welcome to participate in
Cardinal Con—a 12-hour
hackathon
at SVSU.
Students have
external and internal learning opportunities
such as
internships with SVSU's Web Operations Department
or other co-ops, externships and field placements.
What You’ll Study
The computer information systems course load includes business, professional ethics and training in information systems as well as a
concentrated focus in programming, database systems, systems analysis and design
. Computer information science students are supported by tutors, submit a senior capstone project and are equipped to thrive because of a
special program focus on writing.
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Complementary Minors/Majors
Beyond The Books
Hackathon
Cardinal Con is a 12-hour hackathon at SVSU with mini-games during the event and awesome tech talks!
Active Student Organizations
The Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) is just one of many groups on campus. Through ACM's International Collegiate Programming Contest, SVSU students have ranked on an international scale.
Faculty and Student Cybersecurity Research
The SVSU community has research in cyber behavioral biometric modalities – keystroke dynamics, mouse dynamics and touch screen interaction pattern for instance. With articles published at renowned national and international security conferences.
After Graduation
12% projected growth
for the employment of a computer information systems manager through 2026. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$118,370 is the median yearly pay
for a concept computer information systems manager in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s Computer Information Systems program,
students are prepared for a range of industries
including healthcare, education, insurance and more. Some choose to work for regional businesses and some
take positions at globally renowned companies like Dow Chemical, IBM, General Motors, Microsoft and more.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Saginaw Tooling Systems
The Saginaw Intermediate School District
Saginaw Valley State University
Delta College
Mahar Tools
Dynatrace LLC
Auto Owners Insurance
Frankenmuth Mutual Insurance
Covenant Healthcare
Rehmann Group
McLaren Health Care Corporation
Ascension Health
Yeo & Yeo
Dow Chemical
IBM
Dow Corning
General Motors
Electronic Data Systems
Microsoft
Graduate Programs
Saginaw Valley State University
University of Michigan
University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
Career Opportunities
Database Analyst
Lead Systems Integrator
Software Consultant
Systems Administrator
Programmer
Web Developer
Mobile App Developer
Business Process Engineer
Cardinal Successes
These stories offer insight into how SVSU students have turned their education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Chi Weng
Read more…
Dave Bobrowski
Read more…

