URL: https://www.svsu.edu/computerengineeringbs/

Computer Engineering
SVSU
>
College of Science, Engineering & Technology
>
Computer Engineering BS
About
SVSU's undergraduate program in Computer Engineering provides students with a strong practical and theoretical background in both the hardware and the software aspects of computer-based systems, along with the engineering analysis, design, and implementation skills necessary to work between the two. Course work integrated into the curriculum include digital systems, computer organization and architecture, processor interfacing techniques, VLSI, advanced electronics, and embedded system design. Students have the opportunity to apply their design and analysis knowledge through faculty-mentored, hands-on undergraduate research projects with industry partners.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
No teaching assistants at SVSU.
Our Engineering and Computer Science faculty members work directly with students to help them achieve their goals.
The program's curriculum is noted for its
hands-on lab and design experiences
, which culminates into a major design experience.
Students engage in
research projects with faculty
and have published peer-reviewed articles at conferences and in journals.
What You’ll Study
SVSU's computer engineering program bridges electrical and computer engineering, preparing students for real-world engineering design and entrepreneurship opportunities. The program offers students a general education in engineering, physical sciences, and mathematics, along with intensive study in computer science that blends electrical engineering perspectives to deliver a research-driven and highly effective program. As with all of SVSU's engineering programs, the computer engineering curriculum is noted for the hands-on lab and design experiences that are integrated throughout the curriculum and culminates in an industry-partnered senior project experience. This capstone design project incorporates all aspects of the design process, from project planning, feasibility studies and technical report writing to prototype construction and project documentation.
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Complementary Majors
Beyond The Books
Fieldwork
Co-op and internship opportunities are available with leading industries.
Society of Women Engineers (SWE)
SVSU Society of Women Engineers (SWE) student branch is aimed to provide leadership skills for women in the field of engineering by providing opportunities to participate in local and national SWE conferences.
Community Engagement
SVSU is committed to engaging K-12 underrepresented students in Great Lakes Bay Region in many hands-on classroom activities.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Nexteer
Consumers Energy
HallaMechatronics
Dow Chemical Company
General Motors Company
Ford Motor Company
Federal, State and Local Governments
Graduate Programs
Michigan Technological University
Michigan State University
University of Michigan
Career Opportunities
Software Engineer
Software Developer
Computer Engineer
Data Engineer
After Graduation
2% projected growth
for the employment of computer engineers through 2028. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$128,170 is the median yearly pay
for a computer hardware engineer in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s Computer Engineering program, career doors are open to a
multitude of fields including work in analysis, design, manufacturing, testing, and research and development
.
Cardinal Successes
The stories below offer insight into how our students have turned their SVSU education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Go Baby Go Project
Read more…
Cardinal Formula Racing
Read more…
SVSU: Connect
Fully integrated into social networks,
SVSU Connect
is a valuable networking space
dedicated to the community of SVSU students, faculty and alumni which cultivates a culture of helping and giving back. In addition to
connecting with each other
, students at all points along their journey can reach out to alumni mentors for guidance and insight into
making the most of their SVSU experience and successfully transitioning into life after graduation.
Admissions staff have been informed of your interest in this program and will reach out soon!
Would you like more information?
Submit

