URL: https://www.svsu.edu/cybersecurity/

Cybersecurity (Minor)
SVSU
>
College of Science, Engineering & Technology
>
Computer Science & Information Systems
Toggle navigation
Career Options
CSIS Department
About
Data breaches, cyber-attacks and other online threats are gathering speed in the age of advanced technology but, at SVSU, students will learn the
leadership skills and technical competencies
to combat these invaders from trespassing on critical infrastructures. With
intensive labs and lectures
, Cyber Security students will practice their knowledge and prepare to think in terms of
ethical hacking, information security management, countermeasures
and more. Students will receive a strong foundation in how to
detect breaches in computer security
as well as identify computers that have been used in illicit or illegal activities. Their coursework will include both technical cyber security classes, looking at computer forensics, as well as criminal justice courses that cover issues such as
chain of custody and proper evidence handling
. Serving small class sizes with accessible professors, Cyber Security students get individualized attention while researching cutting edge technologies
—allowing these Cardinals to soar!
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
SVSU celebrates
National Cyber Security Awareness Month
and, in the past, has had a
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Specialist
come to campus to talk about cyber security and how to remain safe while using technology.
Internship opportunities
are available for students to
gain experience
in their specific field of interest.
SVSU has over
100 program options for study abroad.
Including areas such as
Belgium
, Argentina,
France
, Ghana,
England
, Australia,
Germany
and so many more!
The Cyber Security program features faculty members who are
academic leaders and scholars
within their fields.
What You’ll Study
The cyber security curriculum at SVSU includes a strong
foundation in computer programming
with higher level courses in
computer forensics
, private security, and
cybercrime, technology and countermeasures.
Students will also be exposed to other computing experiences and opportunities to experience the
latest and greatest in technologies and software
.
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Complementary Minors/Majors
Beyond The Books
Internships & Research Opportunities
Internships and research opportunities enable students to build their resumes with hands-on work experience and published research papers.
Active Student Organizations
Students have the chance to develop a strong sense of camaraderie while bonding with other people that share their interests in any of SVSU's 100+ clubs and organizations.
Study Abroad
SVSU has over 100 program options for study abroad.
After Graduation
12% projected growth
for employment of Computer and Information Systems Managers with a Bachelor’s degree through 2026. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$142,530 is the median yearly pay
for a Computer and Information Systems Manager in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$98,350 is the median yearly pay
for an Information Security Analyst in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a degree from SVSU,
students are prepared for a multitude of careers
in the field of cybersecurity including
public or private computer security technicians
, Internet security analysts,
computer forensics analysts
and more.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
PNC
Dow Chemical Company
Nexteer
General Motors
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Auto Owners Insurance
Career Opportunities
Information Security Risk Sr Technical Specialist
Cyber Security Analyst
Software Functional Testing and Cyber Security Implementation
Digital Forensics Examiner

