URL: https://www.svsu.edu/musicdepartment/

Music Department
News
Program Requirements
Mission, Visions, Values, and Goals
Music Department Application
Why Study Music at SVSU?
Request Information
Videos
Faculty
Music Education
Auditions
Scholarships
Out of State Students
Career Options
Current Concerts and Events
Rhea Miller Concert Series
Ensembles
Join the SVSU Marching Band
Facilities
Outreach
Music for Non-Majors
College of Arts and Behavioral Sciences
Musician Health and Safety
Contact Us
music@svsu.edu
(989) 964-4159
(989) 964-4159
Department Chair
Norman Wika
nwika@svsu.edu
Office
Arbury Fine Arts Center 226
Rhea Miller Recital Hall
Wind Ensemble
Concert Choir
Marching Band
‹
›
Department of Music
The SVSU Department of Music offers professional caliber educational opportunities and performances through two majors, a music minor, a musical theatre minor, and a variety of ensembles. The program is accredited by the National Association of Schools of Music (NASM).
We provide opportunities for students to hone 21st century musicianship skills and apply them in practical settings which prepare them for musical opportunities in the real world.
Programs
From theory to performance, our professional caliber music program offers students the choice of two degrees: a BA in Music Education and a BA in Music with an emphasis in performance.
Concerts & Events
See a variety of student and professional musicians throughout the year. Most performances are free!
Scholarships
Music scholarships are available to students based on ability, academic achievement, and/or financial need.
Outreach
SVSU music students and faculty offer opportunities for high school students and teachers to learn and practice their love of music together.
Information and Links
Apply to SVSU
Rhea Miller Series Facebook Page
SVSU Choirs Facebook Page
SVSU Bands Facebook Page
Music Brochure
Download Music Brochure (PDF 1kb)
Events Brochure
Download Events Brochure (PDF 1kb)
SERVICE LEARNING
SVSU students address the needs of local and global communities through the integration of meaningful service and traditional instruction that incorporates reflection and critical thinking to enrich the learning experience.
Contact Us
music@svsu.edu
(989) 964-4159
(989) 964-4159
Department Chair
Norman Wika
nwika@svsu.edu
Office
Arbury Fine Arts Center 226

