URL: https://www.svsu.edu/kinesiology/

Programs and Majors
Program Requirements
Exercise Science
Health & Physical Education
Rehabilitation Medicine
Advisors
Faculty / Staff
Human Performance Lab
Visit us on Facebook
College of Health and Human Services
SVSU Kinesiology Indoor Walking Program
SVSU
/
Kinesiology
Department of Kinesiology
The Department of Kinesiology shares the University vision to be the premier learning community in Michigan and one of the best in the nation. In concert with the Crystal M. Lange College of Health and Human Services, we are dedicated to fostering a dynamic community of lifelong learners, skilled practitioners, and dedicated leaders.
The Department is committed to the creation, enhancement, and dissemination of knowledge in the fields of exercise science, rehabilitation medicine and physical education teacher preparation.
As agents of change, we strive to fulfill this commitment through exemplary scholarship, creative endeavors, teaching, technological involvement and service. In this pursuit, we encourage academic excellence -  the integration of academic disciplines and the quest for social justice based on a knowledge and appreciation of human diversity.
The Department of Kinesiology is housed in the Crystal M. Lange College of Health and Human Services, Bachand Hall which features state-of-the-art facilities including classrooms, a movement analysis laboratory and a human performance laboratory. In addition to the Department of Kinesiology, The Crystal M. Lange College of Health and Human Services also includes the Departments of Occupational Therapy, Health Sciences, Nursing, and Social Work. Our excellent faculty, innovative curriculum, and outstanding on/off campus clinical experiences create a learning environment that leads to the successful development of our students which results in more than a ninety percent graduation rate.
Academic Programs
The Department of Kinesiology offers three major programs, two minor and a teaching endorsement (certificate).
Majors:
Exercise Science, Rehabilitation Medicine and Health & Physical Education/Teacher Education K-12.
Minors:
Athletic Coaching, and Exercise Promotion.
Endorsement (certificate):
Health and Physical Education Teacher Education, K-12 Endorsement.
Accreditation
The Exercise Science program is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (
www.caahep.org
) upon the recommendation of the Committee on Accreditation for the Exercise Science (CoAES).
Associations
The Department of Kinesiology is a member of the
American Kinesiology Association
(AKA) who promotes and enhances kinesiology as a unified field of study and advances its many applications.
Exercise Science
The ES major studies physical activity and the impact it has on health.
Rehabilitation Medicine
Prepares students for graduate programs in patient care.
Health & Physical Education
The HEPE major is designed for those seeking endorsement in K-12
The Exercise Science (ES) major is built upon the outcomes of the American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) and National Strength and Conditioning Association (NSCA).
National Strength and Conditioning Association
https://www.nsca.com/
American College of Sports Medicine
https://www.acsm.org/
SVSU Kinesiology Indoor Walking Program
The Department of Kinesiology
, in conjunction with
the American College of Sports Medicine’s Exercise is Medicine
® initiative
,
is
promoting physical activity on SVSU’s campus. The Barry and Linda Franklin Exercise is Medicine on Campus Microgrant provided the funding to create placards displaying
INDOOR
walking routes
throughout our campus buildings. Further
mo
re
, Kinesiology students will practice exercise leadership by
gui
d
ing
and supporting
walks, program
promotion
, and organizing and running a 5-K.
CONTACT US.
Department Chair
David Berry
dcberry@svsu.edu
(989) 964-4504
Office
Bachand Hall 212

