URL: https://www.svsu.edu/scottlcarmonacollegeofbusiness/academicdepartments/accountinglawandfinance/

Academic Programs
Student Opportunities
Clubs and Organizations
Programs of Distinction
Garber Cardinal Business Edge
About the Program
Program Requirements
Capstone Field Trip Photos
Oversight and Mentors
Application Procedure and Admission
Garber Cardinal Business Edge Alumni
About Richard J. Garber
The Vitito Global Leadership Institute
About the Vititos
Program Overview
Program Oversight
VGLI Application Procedure and Admission
Program Highlights
Vitito Alumni
Current Cohort
International Opportunities
College News
Academic Departments
Accounting, Law and Finance
Faculty
Economics
Faculty
Management and Marketing
Faculty
About
Message from the Dean
Vision and Mission
College Advisory Board
Dean's Student Advisory Council
Faculty and Staff
Resources for Current Students
SVSU
/
Scott L. Carmona College of Business
/
Academic Departments
/
Accounting, Law and Finance
Department of Accounting, Law and Finance
The Department of Accounting, Law & Finance offers two undergraduate degrees in accounting - a 124-credit Bachelor of Business Administration and a 150-credit Bachelor of Professional Accountancy. Both programs combine the fundamentals of a business program with concentrated coursework in accounting which exposes students to a cutting-edge accounting curriculum including courses in auditing, taxation, technology, data analytics and information systems. Students are prepared to apply accounting principles with a business context and develop their critical and analytical-thinking, ethical reasoning, problem solving, teamwork, and interpersonal skills.
Department Faculty
Succeed at SVSU
Do you like working with money and other assets? Students who study finance at SVSU may work in a variety of public or private organizations doing general or tax accounting, financial planning or internal auditing.
The College of Business works with over 30 regional businesses (from small family businesses to Fortune 500 companies) to create internships for finance students. Students also gain real world insight by participating in programs with regional business leaders and extracurricular honor societies and clubs, such as the Finance Club.
The College of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business, AACSB-International. Less than 5% of business colleges globally are so recognized.
Explore Academic Programs
Accounting
Finance
General Business
Student Opportunities
‌At SVSU, classroom learning is only part of a student's education. Experiencing real life situations; sharing knowledge, leadership and skills; working with professionals and clients; are part of what it means to be an accounting, financial or law professional. These experiences through internship options, student clubs and organizations, and study abroad experiences give our students an advantage before they enter the workplace.
Faculty Highlight
Fun fact about Professor Lotfaliei -
He loves learning languages and is quadrilingual!
CONTACT US.
Scott L. Carmona College of Business
Saginaw Valley State University
CCB 302
7400 Bay Road
University Center, MI 48710
ccbdean@svsu.edu
(989) 964-4064
Jayati Ghosh
Dean
ccbdean@svsu.edu
Amy Hendrickson
Acting Assistant Dean
alhendri@svsu.edu

