URL: https://www.svsu.edu/earlychildhoodeducation/

Early Childhood Education
SVSU
>
College of Education
>
Teacher Education: TE & ETD
About
Students in the Early Childhood Education program are trained to encourage curiosity, creativity and imagination
as they support and serve children during their most formative years.
This nationally recognized program focuses on building both individual, group and familial relationships
within a classroom setting and exploring alternative ways to reach and connect with all children.
With SVSU's low student-to-faculty ratio and special emphasis on equipping educators with a strong combination of theoretical and practical knowledge
—graduates are uniquely qualified to work with children from birth to eight years of age. Students who enroll in the Early Childhood Education major have the opportunity to gain new ideas from observing current best practices and engaging in their own hands-on experiences via unique field placements in both urban and rural settings. Through the pursuit of an education degree at SVSU,
students don't just make a difference in a child's earliest educational experience—they transform children into dreamers and explorers
.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
Students in Early Childhood Education experience
100% job placement upon graduation!
SVSU offers specific
scholarships for education majors.
Students complete two internships
to gain experience working in director or supervisory roles,
toddler programs,
childcare programs and
community agency positions.
SVSU's Early Childhood Education Program is
Nationally Recognized by the Council for Accreditation of Educator Preparation
(CAEP).
SVSU hosts the Annual Educator Leadership Institute
, a three-day conference, which consists of a wide range of workshops and speakers focusing on the K-12 education system.
What You’ll Study
SVSU's Early Childhood Education program offers a
strong foundation in special topics and critical issues relating to early childhood
. In later semesters, students have the opportunity to pursue curriculum and assessment courses and even language development.
Life as an Early Childhood Education major includes superb in-class instruction and two internships
that nudge students towards a deeper understanding of what it means to be an advocate for the most vulnerable.
Other Programs of Interest
Beyond The Books
Early Childhood Organization (ECO)
ECO offers networking in the field of early childhood education while also advocating for the interests of early childhood education and providing service to the community, particularly families of children age eight and younger.
Study Abroad
Students have the opportunity to study abroad and learn about other cultures and education systems.
Literacy Center
A state-of-the-art facility, with the latest technology, designed to assess a student's reading strength and challenges, build individualized lesson plans and foster motivation for reading.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Mid Michigan Community Action Agency (MMCAA)
Anchor Bay School District
Michigan Child Care Inc.
Memphis Community Schools
Island City Academy
L'Anse Creuse Public Schools
Faith Lutheran Childcare
Saginaw Public School District
Bangor Township Schools
Warren Consolidated Schools
Chippewa Nature Center
Mecosta-Osceola ISD
Holly Schools
Hastings Community Schools
Marshall Schools
Career Opportunities
Preschool Teacher
Elementary School Teacher
Elementary Education Teacher (With Elementary Teaching Certification)
Classroom Teachers in State-Funded GSRP Preschool Classrooms
Lead Teachers for State-Funded Local Nature Centers
Directors of Early Childhood Childcare and Afterschool Programs
Program Coordinators for Early On (Michigan's Birth to 3 Early Intervention)
Lead Faculty in Federally Funded Head Start and Early Head Start Programs
Trainers for Great Start Resource Centers Supporting Licensed Childcare Providers
After Graduation
3% projected growth
for the employment of kindergarten and elementary school teachers with a bachelor’s degree through 2026. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$57,980 is the median yearly pay
for kindergarten and elementary school teachers in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s Early Childhood Education program
, career doors are open to a multitude of teaching positions in pre-school, elementary and headstart classrooms. Likewise, graduates could pursue administrative positions such as principalship or superintendency.
SVSU: Connect
Fully integrated into social networks,
SVSU Connect
is a valuable networking space
dedicated to the community of SVSU students, faculty and alumni which cultivates a culture of helping and giving back. In addition to
connecting with each other
, students at all points along their journey can reach out to alumni mentors for guidance and insight into
making the most of their SVSU experience and successfully transitioning into life after graduation.

