URL: https://www.svsu.edu/pmhnp/

About the PMHNP Program
Admission Requirements
Curriculum
Cost and Aid
PMHNP Blog
Office of Graduate Studies
SVSU
/
Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner
PMHNP Post-Graduate Certificate
✓ Unique focus on substance use disorders
✓ Emphasis on improving care in rural communities
✓ 100% online with option for on-campus skills training
✓ Clinical coordinator helps placement within your community
Earn your Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner (PMHNP) Certificate
Graduate Admissions Coordinator
My name is Tanika Williams, MBA, MS,
and I am here to help you navigate your path to earning your graduate degree. If you have any questions regarding application requirements use one of the links below or feel free to text me at (989) 461-2050.
Meet With Tanika
Apply Now
PMHNP Program Coordinator
Contact me at
kaschach@svsu.edu
or (989) 964-4339 for questions about the Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner program.
Kathleen Schachman, PhD, FNP-BC, PMHNP-BC
Connect With Program Coordinator
A Difference Maker
At this very moment, someone needs you to reach them. A person with a substance use disorder, held tight by the grip of opioids, desperate to break free. A parent, at wit's end, seeking the treatment and counseling necessary to save their child's life. The need is urgent in communities large and small across the state. Saginaw Valley State University's Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner post-graduate certificate program strengthens master's prepared nurses to provide integrated mental health and addiction care across the lifespan in acute and primary care settings. Classes are 100% online and in a part-time format, providing working professionals the flexibility they need.
In-Demand Skills
Stay up to date including
evidence-based treatments, recovery options, current hot topics regarding mental health, and stories from students, faculty, and those recovering from addiction.
View Courses
Cost-effective and Competitive
Due to the overwhelming need for qualified practitioners, there are several federal loan forgiveness programs for certified Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioners. This certificate also qualifies for Federal Student Loans.
View Cost and Aid
PMHNP Blog
Join us as we share information about different aspects of the prevention and treatment of mental health conditions and substance use disorders. Topics include evidence-based treatments, recovery options, current hot topics regarding mental health, and stories from students, faculty, and those recovering from addiction.
Read Blog
Support Beyond the Classroom
SVSU’s Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner program has a number of clinical-academic partnerships and community connections that provide unique training opportunities and educational perspectives.
Uses ongoing telementoring through
Project ECHO
to equip primary care practitioners in rural areas with the knowledge they need to provide high-quality addictions care
Clinical partners including Recovery Pathways and Sterling Area Health Center are designed to improve access to mental health care and addiction treatment in rural communities
Community members in long-term recovery participate in optional on-campus skills training, bringing realism to substance use disorder simulations
Individuals who complete the SVSU PMHNP program are eligible to sit for the PMHNP national certification examination offered by American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC) and the American Academy of Nurse Practitioners Certification Board (AANPCB).
The PMHNP program at Saginaw Valley State University is accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education:
http://ccneaccreditation.org
CONTACT US.
Graduate Admissions
Wickes Hall 230
gradadm@svsu.edu
(989) 964-6096
Program Coordinator - Dr. Kathleen Schachman
HHS 209
kaschach@svsu.edu
(989) 964-4339
Tanika Williams
Graduate Admissions Coordinator
gradadm@svsu.edu
(989) 461-2050

