URL: https://www.svsu.edu/mha/

About the MHA Program
Admission Requirements
Curriculum
Program Cost
Office of Graduate Studies
SVSU
/
Health Administration & Leadership (MHA)
Master of Health Administration (MHA)
✓ Lowest MHA tuition in Michigan
✓ Be a part of an executive cohort
✓ Hybrid program to better fit your schedule
Earn your Master of Science in Health Administration (MHA) Degree
Graduate Admissions Coordinator
My name is Tanika Williams, MBA, MS,
and I am here to help you navigate your path to earning your graduate degree. If you have any questions regarding application requirements use one of the links below or feel free to text me at (989) 461-2050.
Meet With Tanika
Apply Now
MHA Program Coordinators
Jeremy Knous
Professor of Kinesiology
(989) 964-2632
jknous@svsu.edu
Mark Kato
Assistant Professor of Health Sciences
(989) 964-4538
mtkato@svsu.edu
Contact us at
mshal@svsu.edu
for questions about the MHA program.
Connect With Program Coordinator
Join an Exclusive Cohort
SVSU's Master of Science Health Administration program is designed specifically to meet the educational needs of busy clinicians, physicians, advanced practice providers, and current healthcare administrators. This program will provide health care leadership skills to complement clinical experience in preparation for health care administrative positions.
Become a Leader
This program is designed for clinicians, physicians, advanced practice providers, and current health care administrators. Advance your career and become a healthcare leader when you acquire the administration and management skills critical to this ever-changing environment of health administration!
Develop Your Skills
Navigate within the healthcare reform journey
Perform business and analytical skills
Assess regulatory and legal requirements
Apply emotional intelligence, conflict resolution, and negotiation to leadership
Understand healthcare finance, budgeting and payer complexities
Enjoy the Rewards
Continuing Medical Education credits provided
Online and hybrid delivery, with two Saturday meetings per semester enhanced with synchronous technology to provide greater engagement
Cohort format with priority course scheduling
Simplified application process, course registration, and assistance with all learning materials. Face-to-face meetings include meals.
Easy Admissions Process
SVSU’s executive cohort MHA program accepts a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university. A detailed list of requirements makes applying straightforward and simple.
See Admissions Requirements
Designed for Working Clinicians and Administrators
Our executive cohort MHA degree is made for the practicing health care employee—with flexible class times and the perfect combination of in-person and remote instruction.
See Curriculum
Cost-effective and Competitive
More affordable than comparable programs with a variety of loans and scholarships available, SVSU’s Master of Science in Health Administration program is a convenient and cost-effective way to advance your administration career.
See Tuition Information
Get with the program! Sign up for the Master of Science Health Administration track at Saginaw Valley State University. You will not regret it. It’s fun, rewarding, relevant, challenging, and well worth your time. If you currently are or are looking to be, a leader in healthcare administration this program is a must. It is loaded with pertinent, up-to-date, real-world information that will prepare you to navigate and succeed in the ever-changing world of 21st-century healthcare.
— William R Felten MD, FACC
Cardiovascular Service Line Chief
MyMichigan Health
Guided by Healthcare-Focused Advisory Board and Professional Organizations
The advisory board for the Master of Science Health Administration consists of members from healthcare-related organizations and the SVSU community. The advisory board was created to assure current and relevant content is incorporated into the program. Professional organizations: American College of Health Care Executives (ACHE), Health Care Finance Management Association (HFMA), Health Information Management Systems Society (HIMSS) provide content throughout the curriculum.
Industry Outlook
SVSU's MHA offers working adults a flexible solution for earning their degree from a highly ranked and nationally recognized program.
Average Job Growth*
32%
Average Salary Range*
$78K/year to $104K/year
Average Job Placement Rate for SVSU Graduates
96.9%
*Stats are approximations, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, US Department of Labor
“The Masters in Health Administration program has been intellectually stimulating with an engaged group of colleagues and course materials relevant to my work.”
Michael A. Stack, M.D. VPMA
MyMichigan Medical Center - Gratiot
"The MHA course exceeded my expectations. The content was not only applicable to my daily work but also inspired me to think about other areas where I can make a difference. It provided great content in varied formats that kept my interest. It provided camaraderie between myself and physicians I had seen or heard their name but never knew. It was exciting to see these physicians share my passion for making positive changes throughout Covenant. The program does require a good deal of time, but it is well worth it. I enjoyed it even more than I thought I would."
Dr. Dawn R. Johnson, DO
Covenant Medical Group
"The program has provided new insight, understanding and knowledge that I have been able to directly apply in my duties in the hospital. The subject matter and assignments are immediately applicable to current workflows and the challenges we face in the hospital. It was especially rewarding to design and complete an assignment that was initiated in the hospital to solve one of these challenges."
Aaron Smith, MD, FACEP
Chief Medical Informatics Officer
Clinical Operations Coordinator, ECC
Covenant Healthcare
Apply Now
Meet With Tanika
CONTACT US.
Graduate Admissions
Wickes Hall 230
gradadm@svsu.edu
(989) 964-6096
Graduate Health Administration Program Coordinator
mshal@svsu.edu
Tanika Williams
Graduate Admissions Coordinator
gradadm@svsu.edu
(989) 461-2050

