URL: https://www.svsu.edu/mph/

About the MPH Program
Admission Requirements
Curriculum
Program Cost
Office of Graduate Programs
SVSU
/
Master of Public Health (MPH)
Master of Public Health (MPH)
✓ Lowest MPH tuition in Michigan
✓ Engaged faculty and relevant curriculum
✓ Earn your degree online in 2 years
Earn your Master of Public Health (MPH) Degree
Saginaw Valley State University offers the region's most flexible online MPH degree at the lowest tuition rates in Michigan. Our 30-credit, online MPH program provides the foundational knowledge public health professionals need to work in the public health field successfully.
Graduate Admissions Coordinator
My name is Tanika Williams, MBA, MS,
and I am here to help you navigate your path to earning your graduate degree. If you have any questions regarding application requirements use one of the links below or feel free to text me at (989) 461-2050.
Meet With Tanika
Apply Now
MPH Program Coordinators
Christine Noller
, PhD, JD, LLM
Public Health Program Coordinator
Associate Professor of Health Sciences
cnoller@svsu.edu
(989) 964-4016
Meghan Baruth
, PhD
Professor of Health Sciences
mbaruth@svsu.edu
(989) 964-4143
Connect With A Program Coordinator
Virtual Information Session
Monday, November 11 — 8:00 - 9:00 PM
Wednesday, November 13 — Noon - 1:00 PM
Monday, December 9 — 8:00 - 9:00 PM
Wednesday, December 11 — Noon - 1:00 PM
A Healthier, Safer Community
You can make your community healthier and safer—in just 24 months. From helping prevent infectious disease spread in the community to ensuring everyone has access to clean drinking water, SVSU Master of Public Health graduates save lives. With hands-on faculty, an intense real-world focus, and a flexible timeline, our program focuses on five core areas of study to give our MPH graduates the skills and knowledge they need to make the world a better, healthier place.
Accessible Admission
A hands-on program with a real-world focus, SVSU’s MPH program accepts students of all ages with varying levels of experience. A detailed list of requirements makes applying straightforward and simple.
See Requirements
Online, Flexible, and Relevant
As a 100% online, generalist program, SVSU’s MPH program incorporates current and relevant public health concerns into coursework and allows students to focus their capstone on a public health topic of interest.
See Curriculum
Cost-effective and Competitive
At just 30 credits, SVSU’s MPH program can be completed in just 2 years, making it a convenient and cost-effective graduate degree option, with financial aid and scholarships also available.
See Tuition / Cost Information
Industry Outlook
SVSU's Master of Public Health (MPH) offers working adults a flexible solution for earning a graduate degree from a highly ranked and nationally recognized program.
Average Job Growth*
15%
Mean Salary Range*
$64,930/year
Employed or Continuing Education**
95%
*Stats are approximations based on Health Education Specialist, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, US Department of Labor. **According to study from Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health and the Association of Schools and Programs of Public Health (ASPPH).
Apply Now
CONTACT US.
Graduate Admissions
Wickes Hall 230
gradadm@svsu.edu
(989) 964-6096
Christine L. Noller, JD, LLM
GC 223
cnoller@svsu.edu
(989) 964-4016
Tanika Williams
Graduate Admissions Coordinator
gradadm@svsu.edu
(989) 461-2050

