URL: https://www.svsu.edu/msw/

About the MSW Program
MSW Requirements
Advanced Standing MSW Requirements
Cost
Office of Graduate Studies
SVSU
/
Master of Social Work (MSW)
Master of Social Work
✓ 90% of students have job offer before graduation
✓ Dedicated field placement team
✓ Accelerated and traditional routes
✓ Hands-on, immersive courses
✓ Fully accredited program
Earn your Master of Social Work (MSW) Degree
Application Update
The MSW application is OPEN!
Start or Continue Application
Graduate Admissions Coordinator
My name is Tanika Williams, MBA, MS,
and I am here to help you navigate your path to earning your graduate degree. If you have any questions regarding application requirements use one of the links below or feel free to text me at (989) 461-2050.
Meet With Tanika
Apply Now
MSW Program Coordinator
Our MSW program provides the foundational knowledge social work professionals need to successfully work in the mental health field. Contact me at
dededman@svsu.edu
or (989) 964-2591 for questions about the MSW program.
Denise Dedman,
PhD, ACSW, LMSW, Associate Professor
Connect With Program Coordinator
Choose Your Path
SVSU has two different paths for applicants to earn an MSW from SVSU.
Our
Advanced Standing MSW
cohort begins each Spring (May) semester while our
MSW
cohort begins each Summer (June/July) semester.
No matter which MSW path you choose, SVSU's Master of Social Work program prepares students to take either the clinical or macro license exam.
Advanced Standing MSW
Those interested in the Advanced Standing MSW program
must have earned a CSWE-accredited Bachelor of Social Work (BSW)
.
This program can take 1-2 years to complete.
See Advanced Standing MSW Requirements
MSW
Those interested in the MSW program
must have earned a bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution
.
This program can take 2-3 years to complete.
See MSW Requirements
A Difference Maker
Social workers are life-changers, advocates, and go-getters who are constantly there for those in need. And right now, they’re in high demand. And when you enroll in the Master of Social Work program at SVSU, you’ll not only be on the fast path to earning an MSW, but you’ll be equipped with the tools and the knowledge to empower others, make a difference in your community, and change the lives of those who need it most. SVSU MSW graduates are working in areas such as private counseling centers, substance abuse centers, health care centers, VA hospitals, schools and private practice clinics.
Practicum (Field) Placement Opportunities
Our unique, immersion-based teaching method gives you real-world experience by placing you within 1 of over 200 local agencies and clinics, including clinical practice, community work, program development, and agency research. Plus, students can take electives in their field of interest.
Advanced Standing MSW Courses
MSW Courses
Cost-effective and Competitive
With the lower SVSU tuition, our MSW is one of the most affordable programs available and offers a variety of scholarships and financial aid options.
See Tuition Information
Accredited Generalist Program
SVSU's CSWE-accredited advanced generalist MSW program combines courses in both micro-level/clinical and macro-level social work to prepare students to engage with vulnerable populations at multiple levels, from direct practice with individuals and families to larger-scale community programming and social leadership.
Industry Outlook
SVSU's MSW offers working adults a flexible solution for earning their degree from a highly ranked and nationally recognized program.
Average Job Growth*
18%
Average Salary Range*
$38K/year to $74K/year
Average Job Placement Rate for SVSU MSW Graduates
95%
*Stats are approximations, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, US Department of Labor
Assessment of MSW Student Learning Outcomes
The Council on Social Work Education requires all programs to measure and report student learning outcomes. Students are assessed on their mastery of the practice behaviors that represent competencies that comprise the accreditation standards of the Council on Social Work Education. These competencies are dimensions of social work practice which all social workers are expected to acquire during their professional training. A measurement benchmark is set by the School of Social Work for each group of practice behaviors that represent social work competency. An assessment score at or above that benchmark is considered by the School to represent mastery of that particular set of practice behaviors.
2022-2023 Assessment of Student Learning Outcomes for the MSW Program
(21KB)
College of Health and Human Services Social Work Program Organizational Chart
(111KB)
Apply Now
Saginaw Valley State University is a fully-accredited institution with our MSW program accredited by the Council of Social Work Education (CSWE).
CONTACT US.
Graduate Admissions
Wickes Hall 230
gradadm@svsu.edu
989-964-6096
Denise E. Dedman, PhD, ACSW, LMSW
MSW Program Coordinator
Associate Professor, Department of Social Work & Youth Services
Health & Human Services 239
dededman@svsu.edu
(989) 964-2591
Tanika Williams
Graduate Admissions Coordinator
gradadm@svsu.edu
(989) 461-2050

