URL: https://www.svsu.edu/economicsba/

Economics (BA)
SVSU
> The Scott L. Carmona College of Business  > Economics
About
Students in the Economics (BA) program focus on the qualitative and quantitative aspects of economics, while also exploring a variety of subjects that
impact the social, political, legal and corporate economic climate
. The degree provides students with a comprehensive view of economics, with a minor requirement that's intended to challenge individuals to find and explore their niche. With intimate class sizes, students are able to concentrate solely on concepts such as inflation, resource management, microeconomics and macroeconomics, statistics and more.
SVSU's expert faculty encourage data-driven, hands-on research
and offer students the opportunity to work on pre-financed, cutting-edge projects. These research opportunities performed by fellow majors have led to both national and international exposure at conferences, as well as via publications in scholarly journals. Through their perseverance and dedication, Economics (BA) students are able to study abroad in rich learning environments that expose them to
real-world domestic and international economies
. With access to state-of-the-art behavior labs and a Bloomberg trading room, these cardinals rise above their collegiate competitors long before they ever step foot off campus!
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
Economics students can study abroad
for short or long term sessions in countries across Europe, Africa and Asia.
Opening in 2020, the new Scott L. Carmona College of Business will offer
state-of-the-art facilities like the Bloomberg trading room, consumer behavior labs
and other team project environments.
Students work with faculty to conduct data-driven research and have the opportunity to
publish original articles in scholarly journals
.
Less than 5% of business colleges globally are accredited by the AACSB-International
—SVSU's Scott L. Carmona College of Business is one of them.
Over 90% of the faculty of the College of Business
belong to a professional or service organization, providing diverse networking opportunities for students.
Programs (Majors and Minors)
Economics Major
Economics Minor for Non-Business Students
Related: Explore Economics (BBA)
What You’ll Study
SVSU's Economics (BA) program offers a thorough education in macro- and microeconomics, accounting and statistics with the
freedom to explore a variety of subjects
. Life as an Economics (BA) major includes in-class instruction, data-driven research and
selecting a minor to advance their collegiate experience
. Students receive a
well-rounded and exploratory education
to prepare them for life after graduation.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
State of Michigan
Chemical Bank
Lansing Mayor's Office
Lansing Board of Water & Light
Dow
Wells Fargo
Michigan House of Representatives
Career Opportunities
Project Manager
Planning Engineer
Auditor
Human Resources Development
Vice President of Investments
Sales Representative
After Graduation
16% projected growth
for the employment of financial managers with a Bachelor’s degree through 2028. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$127,990 is the median yearly pay
for a financial manager in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s BA program in Economics,
students are prepared
for careers such as portfolio manager,
actuary
, and
financial manager,
or graduate school to pursue careers as
economists
.
Cardinal Successes
These stories offer insight into how SVSU students have turned their education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Jenni Putz
Economics and Applied Mathematics Alum
Read more…
News
Read more…

