URL: https://www.svsu.edu/economicsbba/

Economics (BBA)
SVSU
> The Scott L. Carmona College of Business  > Economics
About
The Economics (BBA) program
challenges students to familiarize themselves with the fundamentals of business
and their economically influencing applications in the real world. SVSU's accomplished faculty focus on quality instruction and train students to participate in data-driven, hands-on research projects. Research performed within the program has led to students being published in scholarly, reviewed journals and invited to present at national and international conferences. With small class sizes, students are able to
focus their knowledge and skillset on developing analytical reasoning
, while also pushing for a deeper understanding of the economic environment of business. Via access to top-notch behavior labs and a Bloomberg trading room, Economics (BBA) majors develop, manage and defend self-made business plans from start to finish while receiving critical practical experience. As graduates, these cardinals have
a
finely hued understanding of what it takes to make a business not just run, but flourish!
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
Opening in 2020, the new Scott L. Carmona College of Business will offer
state-of-the-art facilities like the Bloomberg trading room, consumer behavior labs and other team project environments.
Less than 5% of business colleges globally are accredited by the AACSB-International
—SVSU's Scott L. Carmona College of Business is one of them
.
Over 90% of the faculty of the College of Business belong to a professional or service organization, providing
diverse networking opportunities for students
.
Economics students can study abroad
for short or long term sessions in countries across Europe, Africa and Asia.
Programs (Majors and Minors)
Economics (BBA) Major
Economics Minor for Non-Business Students
Related: Explore Economics (Non-BBA)
What You’ll Study
SVSU's Economics (BBA) program offers a
strong foundation in micro- and macroeconomics, statistics and management
courses as well as a comprehensive set of advanced economics courses with a
specialized bent towards business administration
. Life as an Economics (BBA) major includes in-class instruction, research and fieldwork. Students receive a
concrete and competitive education
to prepare them for their next step in life.
Complementary Minors/Majors
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Argo Liquid
Zimmer Biomet
Michigan House of Representatives
Wells Fargo
Dow
Century21 Signature Realty
Chemical Bank
Lansing Board of Water & Light
Career Opportunities
Fair Lending Specialist
Planning Engineer
Vice President of Investments
Secondary Education Teacher
Industrial Researcher
Data Analyst
Policy Analyst
Politicians
Insurance Agent
After Graduation
14% projected growth
for employment of a management analyst with a Bachelor’s degree through 2028. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$83,610 is the median yearly pay
for a management analyst in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s Economics program,
students are prepared for a multitude of careers
including
management, business, and financial analyst
; securities, commodities, and financial sales agent;
financial advisor
, budget analyst, and more.
Cardinal Successes
These stories offer insight into how SVSU students have turned their education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Jenni Putz
Economics and Applied Mathematics Alum
Read more…
News
Read more…

