URL: https://www.svsu.edu/educationspecialist/

Program Requirements
Admission Requirements
Advising
Other Helpful Links
Faculty
Graduate Programs
College of Education
SVSU
/
Education Specialist
Education Specialist — Educational Leadership (EdS)
Mastering the challenge of education to change and improve lives
The Education Specialist (EdS) degree provides post-master’s study and is a leadership program preparing individuals to assume a professional role in education administration and supervision. It is designed to enhance the academic skill and knowledge base of educational leaders, preparing them to meet the increasingly complex challenges of the 21st century. The degree plan requires the completion of 30 semester credits beyond a master’s degree from an accredited graduate institution.
Specialty Areas
The Ed.S. degree serves the following three specialty areas:
Central Office Administrative Endorsement (24 cr)
Director of Special Education Approval Program (30 cr)
Director of Special Education Approval with Central Office Administrative Endorsement (36 cr)
See Admissions Requirements for the requirements for admission. See Program Requirements for the courses required for each.
Special Education Administration Approvals
The Educational Leadership and Services department offers course work leading to State approval as a Director of Special Education (30 credits) or as a Supervisor of Special Education (12 credits).
Approval Program - Director of Special Education
Those who wish to obtain full approval as Director of Special Education must:
possess an earned master's degree;
have full approval in at least one area of special education;
three years of successful experience in special education;
one year of successful experience as a Director of Special Education in an approved special education program.
Additionally, the student must complete or show a record of completion of course work leading to State approval as a Supervisor of Special Education (12 credits) offered by the Educational Leadership and Services department (see requirements as listed in our Graduate Catalog).
Students should make an appointment with a Certification Advisor to review previous coursework taken and to develop an individualized course of study prior to enrolling in their first semester of courses. For any person who is employed on a full-time basis, the course load during Fall and Winter semesters is a maximum of six (6) credit hours or two (2) courses.
Upon admission to the program, a faculty advisor is available to answer questions regarding coursework requirements, transfer of or course waivers, and the internship for this approval program. Students are encouraged to meet with a faculty advisor prior to the completion of 9 credits and again prior to the completion of 18 credits to assure a smooth transition through the program.
Contact Us
College of Education Graduate and Teacher Education Admissions Office:    989-964-4057 (option #3)
Approval Program - Supervisor of Special Education
Those who wish to obtain full approval as Supervisor of Special Education must:
possess an earned master's degree;
have full approval in at least one area of special education;
three years of successful experience in special education;
one year of successful experience as a Supervisor of Special Education in an approved special education program.
Additionally, the student must complete or show a record of completion of course work leading to State approval as a Supervisor of Special Education (12 credits) offered by the Educational Leadership and Services department (see requirements as listed in our Graduate Catalog).
Students should make an appointment with a Certification Advisor to review previous coursework taken and to develop an individualized course of study prior to enrolling in their first semester of courses. For any person who is employed on a full-time basis, the course load during Fall and Winter semesters is a maximum of six (6) credit hours or two (2) courses.
Upon admission to the program, a faculty advisor is available to answer questions regarding coursework requirements, transfer of or course waivers, and the internship for this approval program. Students are encouraged to meet with a faculty advisor prior to the completion of 9 credits and again prior to the completion of 18 credits to assure a smooth transition through the program.
Contact Us
College of Education Graduate and Teacher Education Admissions Office:    989-964-4057 (option #3)
Accreditation
The College of Education is accredited by the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation (CAEP). Saginaw Valley State University is approved as a teacher preparation institution by action of the Michigan State Board of Education. The Principalship specialty is aligned with the Professional Standards for the Preparation of School Principals (PSPSP). Central Office is aligned with the Professional Standards for the Preparation of Central Office Administrators (PSPCOA). The Directorship and Supervisor of Special Education programs are aligned with the Council for Exceptional Children (C.E.C.) Special Education Standards.

