URL: https://www.svsu.edu/etm/

Engineering Technology Management
SVSU
>
College of Science, Engineering & Technology
>
Mechanical Engineering
Toggle navigation
College of Science, Engineering and Technology
Our Alumni
About
As engineering challenges become increasingly complex and intersect areas of expertise, the world needs qualified engineering leadership to manage technological and human solutions.
Engineering and business leadership
: perhaps you find both worlds interesting and motivating. If so, the Engineering Technology Management (ETM) program at SVSU may be for you. In this interdisciplinary program, learn the skills and knowledge at the intersection of
engineering technology, management, and business studies.
Understand modern industrial practices and enhance your leadership and management abilities. D
evelop your knowledge of good business practices, ethics, and industrial workplace communication skills.
Pursue your passion in this field and prepare in the ETM program at SVSU to perform at the interface of engineering and business.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Faculty
Cardinal Points
Interdisciplinary program. You will take courses in
Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Management,
among other disciplines.
Apply your engineering or technology
Associate degree from a Michigan community college toward the ETM degree
. See the complete list of pre-approved programs for
additional information
.
Discover a
career path
to opportunities in an array of fields, such as
Manufacturing, Assembly line, Automotive, Chemical Processing, Petroleum industries, Electrical & Computer, Industrial Engineering, Materials Engineering.
What You’ll Study
This four-year (Bachelor of Science) interdisciplinary program focuses on teaching the core areas of foundation and engineering, along with
industrial practices, leadership, and management
. You will learn the technical language of engineering, engineering concepts, and engineering processes. The courses in this program are to be taken with very careful attention to the prerequisites. Ultimately, you will gain wide-ranging foundational knowledge that balances the theoretical and practical, learning best practices as well as
adaptability and creative problem solving in managing a business
, leading a team in effective collaborative and cross-functional work, and much more.
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Your Plan for a Successful College Experience
The Cardinal Plan is a unique outline created by faculty for your program at SVSU and serves as a guide for student success.
Alternative Majors/Minors
Beyond The Books
Cardinal Formula Racing
Cardinal Formula Racing will give you the chance to learn outside of the classrooms as you work with a team of students from different disciplines to build a car from concept to completion and use it to compete in the Formula SAE series
The Independent Testing Lab (ITL)
ITL at SVSU allows you to provide analytical services and technical support to businesses and industries in the community before you graduate
Saginaw Bay Environmental Science Institute
With the Saginaw Bay Environmental Science Institute you can conduct environmental research working alongside experienced faculty and help the Saginaw Bay Area in a meaningful way
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Nexteer Automotive
Dow Inc.
Duro-Last
General Motors Company
Graduate Programs
Lawrence Technological University
Career Opportunities
Manufacturing
Assembly line
Automotive
Chemical Processing
Electrical & Computer
Industrial Engineering
Materials Engineering
After Graduation
4% projected job growth
for the employment of mechanical engineers through 2028. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$115,220 is the median yearly pay
for an aerospace engineer in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
A degree in this field from SVSU will open up plenty of new exciting career opportunities for you in any engineering discipline. Land a job working in aerospace,
biosystems engineering
, biomedical,
chemical
, environmental, and much more and you could get employed by a company like NASA, aircraft companies, automotive,
manufacturing, design, supervision, research firms,
equipment design firms, and others.  There is no shortage of career possibilities with a degree in ETM.
SVSU: Connect
Fully integrated into social networks,
SVSU
Connect
is a valuable networking space
dedicated to the community of SVSU students, faculty, and alumni, cultivating a culture of helping and giving back. In addition to connecting with each other, students at all points along their journey can reach out to alumni mentors for guidance and insight into making the most of their SVSU experience, and successfully transitioning into life after graduation.

