URL: https://www.svsu.edu/english/

English (BA)
SVSU
>
College of Arts and Behavioral Sciences
>
English Department
About
English majors at SVSU choose among three courses of study—
Literature, Creative Writing and English Education
. Each offers an immersive
experience in language, storytelling, writing and culture.
Literature majors explore the history of ideas and literary texts from different parts of the world, empowering them to develop their own values and become independent, critical thinkers. Creative Writing students
hone their craft as storytellers and poets
, reading and writing in small workshops. A degree from this program encourages students to
share the power of language, literature and writing with others.
The traits that SVSU English majors develop—
critical judgment, effective writing and imagination
—equip them for a diverse range of careers. Many attend graduate school, sometimes pursuing further education in literature, creative writing, library or information science, etc. Whether pursuing further education or not, graduates often find their greatest success in
fields like publishing, business, education, law, government or public relations.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
A
Certificate in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL)
and a teaching endorsement in English as a Second Language offer additional paths to careers.
The
Voices in the Valley
series brings
renowned poets and fiction writers
from across the country to share their work with the campus community.
Pass rates among
English Education majors
on the Michigan Test for Teacher Certification subject exam are
consistently higher than 80%
.
English majors participate in
capstone experiences
focused on their major course of study, conducting
research and constructing portfolios
.
What You’ll Study
All English majors—whether they focus on
Literature, Creative Writing or English Education
—
learn about the history of literature and culture,
developing their own critical judgment
and
an
understanding of literature’s
influence on
the world it represents. They also develop, as writers, the ability to
communicate emotions and ideas through powerful language
. With the guidance of professors, students also learn to conduct research to find answers to the important questions that they discover along their collegiate journey.
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Complementary Minors/Majors
Beyond The Books
Editing and Publishing Opportunities
Cardinal Sins, the SVSU art and literary magazine, and the Valley Vanguard, SVSU’s student newspaper, offer students experience in writing and editing for a wide audience.
Internships at the Theodore Roethke Museum
Creative Writing majors can participate in internships at the Theodore Roethke Museum, an institution dedicated to the legacy of one of Michigan’s great writers.
Annual Tyner Prizes
The Tyner Prizes annually recognize the accomplishments of students in fiction, poetry and non-fiction.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Aevitas Creative Management
Bay County Library System
Covenant Healthcare
42nd Circuit Court, Midland County
Quicken Loans
Siemens PLM Software
Wired Public Relations
Graduate Programs
Central Michigan University
Columbia College Chicago
Oklahoma State University
University of Michigan
University of Oregon
University of Wisconsin—Milwaukee
Career Opportunities
Attorney
Content Strategist
Editor
Human Resources Specialist
Law Clerk
Librarian
Literary Agent
Teacher
After Graduation
8% projected growth for
employment of writers and authors with a bachelor’s degree. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$62,170 is the median yearly pay
for a writer or author in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s English program, career doors are open to a multitude of fields including education,
publishing
, law, s
ocial work
, library and information science,
business
, government,
public relations
and many more.
Cardinal Successes
These stories offer insight into how students have turned their SVSU education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
SVSU Forensics Team
Read more…
Emma Kirsch
Tutor Leadership Award
and
Sam Geffert 
Tutor Of The Year Award
Read more…

