URL: https://www.svsu.edu/dnp/

About the DNP Program
Admission Requirements
BSN to DNP
MSN to DNP
Program Cost
Office of Graduate Studies
SVSU
/
Nursing DNP
Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP)
✓ Offers a practice-focused doctoral program
✓ BSN to DNP clinical placement team
✓ Flexible program tailored for working nurses
✓ Program starts in fall semester
Excel in Healthcare with SVSU's Doctor of Nursing Practice!
Graduate Admissions Coordinator
My name is Tanika Williams, MBA, MS,
and I am here to help you navigate your path to earning your graduate degree. If you have any questions regarding application requirements use one of the links below or feel free to text me at (989) 461-2050.
Meet With Tanika
DNP Program Coordinator
Contact me at
cmhupert@svsu.edu
or (989) 964-4595 for questions about the DNP program.
Cynthia M Hupert
DNP, MSN, BSN, CNE
Connect With Program Coordinator
Your Path to Nursing Excellence with SVSU's Innovative DNP Program
Saginaw Valley State University's Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) program combines a unique approach with affordability. Tailored to meet the needs of full-time working nurses, this practice-focused program emphasizes practical application instead of a traditional dissertation. SVSU's DNP program also offers cost-effective options, making it more affordable than comparable programs. With a variety of loans and scholarships available, it provides a convenient and competitive pathway to advance your nursing career.
The DNP program is designed to meet the educational needs for the complexity of today's health care environment. Coursework will provide a strong foundation to accelerate evidence translation, critically appraise the practice environment, drive organizational change and lead interprofessional approaches to achieve quality outcomes.
Within the realm of primary care, SVSU's DNP program equips registered nurses with advanced education, training them to deliver comprehensive primary care services to individuals across their entire lifespan, ranging from infants to the elderly.
Options for Earning Your DNP Degree
BSN to DNP
The BSN to Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) program is designed to prepare nurses at the highest level for advanced clinical practice including a
Primary Care Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP)
. Courses are offered in a flexible hybrid format - which includes a blend of online coursework with some in-person late-afternoon class sessions.
BSN to DNP Requirements
MSN to DNP
A Specialized Curriculum for Advanced Leadership.
SVSU's 100% online MSN to DNP program equips you with the expertise in both essential soft skills and advanced conceptual knowledge necessary to effectively guide patients, students, and healthcare teams toward achieving their goals.
This program is available to any RN who has a MSN from an accredited university, regardless of the focus or major and will build on professional experiences which will be integrated into the learning process to practice within a multifaceted health care system environment.
MSN to DNP Requirements
Industry Outlook
SVSU's DNP offers working adults a flexible solution for earning their degree from a highly ranked and nationally recognized program.
Average Job Growth*
40%
Median Annual Wage*
$123,780/year
Average Job Placement Rate for SVSU Graduates
90.9%
*Stats are approximations, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, US Department of Labor for Nurse Practitioners
Apply Now
Meet With Tanika
The Doctor of Nursing Practice program in nursing at Saginaw Valley State University is accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (
http://ccneaccreditation.org
).
The Michigan State Board of Nursing of the Michigan Department of Consumer & Industry Services, Board of Nursing, P.O. Box 30193, Lansing, MI 48909, (517) 335-0918, approves the Nursing Program.
Individuals who complete the SVSU FNP program are eligible to sit for the FNP national certification examination offered by American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC) and the American Academy of Nurse Practitioners Certification Board (AANPCB).
CONTACT US.
Graduate Admissions
Wickes Hall 230
gradadm@svsu.edu
989-964-6096
Cynthia M Hupert DNP, MSN, BSN
Graduate Nursing Program Coordinator
cmhupert@svsu.edu
(989) 964-4595
Tanika Williams
Graduate Admissions Coordinator
gradadm@svsu.edu
(989) 461-2050

