URL: https://www.svsu.edu/financebba/

Finance
SVSU
> The Scott L. Carmona College of Business  > Accounting, Law, and Finance
About
In the finance program, students learn how to analyze and interpret financial data, then apply that knowledge to complex business challenges. The program utilizes state-of-the-art technology and top-notch faculty to help students develop an understanding of investment strategies, corporate finance policy and emerging financial issues. Graduates of the SVSU Finance program have the tools to be successful whether they choose to become a trusted investment advisor, work in corporate finance, pursue a career in banking, help launch a start-up or take any path that requires a deep understanding of business paired with data analysis skills.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
New stock trading room featuring the same
Bloomberg terminals
used on Wall Street.
Opportunity to compete in the
CFA Challenge
, doing real world analysis judged by respected industry professionals,
Earn a BMC or ESG Certification from Bloomberg to add to your resume.
As a CFA affiliated program, Scholarships are available to defray the cost of the first CFA exam.
Finance Majors have the opportunity to enhance their degree by adding a minor in Actuarial Science to prepare for the licensing exams.
Programs (Majors and Minors)
Finance Major
Finance Minor for Business Students
Finance Minor for Non-Business Students
Your Plan for a Successful College Experience
Download the Finance Cardinal Plan
— a unique outline created by faculty for your program and serves as a guide for student success.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
LPL Financial
NCB Capital
PNC Bank
Bank of America
Dow
Career Opportunities
Registered Principal
Associate, Wealth Manager
Commercial Relationship Manager
Credit Product Officer
Logistics Sourcing Specialist
After Graduation 2022
11% projected growth
for employment of financial analysts with a Bachelor’s degree through 2026. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$85,660 is the median yearly pay
for a financial analysts in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s Finance program,
students are prepared for a multitude of careers
in corporate finance, banking, financial planning or financial analysis.
Cardinal Successes
These stories offer insight into how SVSU students have turned their education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Leecia Barnes 
Finance Major
Read more…
Connor Doyle
Finance Major
Read more…

