URL: https://www.svsu.edu/frenchlanguage/

French (BA)
SVSU
>
College of Arts and Behavioral Sciences
>
Modern Foreign Languages
About
The French program (available in a major or
minor
)
unleashes a student’s potential to absorb the Francophone cultures
, from its rich heritage all over the globe to its passionate, flowing language. With access to a comprehensive language lab, weekly conversation hours and so much more, students have every opportunity to evolve their language skills. Accomplished faculty members
integrate technological resources, online tools and multimedia
in their courses, ensuring that all students are able to engage with the French civilization in a variety of contexts and forms. SVSU welcomes students to embark on a one-of-a-kind experience of exploration and intrigue
– and, ultimately, the discovery of themselves!
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
Students studying French can study abroad to
further their expertise and language skills
.
Multiple scholarships are available
to students studying a foreign language, including Sebastian and Ida Ramet Endowed Scholarship for the study of
foreign languages or cultures
, the David E. Barker Endowed Scholarship for
French majors and minors
and an International Study Abroad Endowed Scholarship.
The program is approved by the
Michigan Department of Education
and adheres to guidelines set by the
American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages
.
What You’ll Study
SVSU’s French program offers a comprehensive education in not only the language but the Francophone culture as a whole. Students explore specialized topics like translation, French professions, contemporary Francophone cultures and more.
Life as a French major or minor includes immersive classroom experiences, interactions with native speakers, diverse study abroad opportunities and festive on-campus activities.
Cardinals will receive a multicultural and comprehensive education to prepare them for the diversity of the world around them upon graduation!
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Complementary Minors/Majors
Beyond The Books
Foreign Language Day
Since 1976, the Department of Modern Foreign Languages has sponsored an annual Foreign Language Day for high school students.
Active Student Organizations
Students have opportunities to join the Le nid des cardinaux, the International Student Club (ISC) and much more.
Learning Facilities
The Language Lab is equipped with Sony/Sans Virtuoso Major and Soloist software and is available to all language students. In addition, weekly French conversation hours are available in the lab.
After Graduation
4% projected growth
for employment of interpreters and translators. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$
62,360
is the median yearly pay
for a high school teacher. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s French program, graduates are prepared to edit, interpret, and translate the French language in both corporate and educational settings.
Cardinal Successes
These stories offer insight into how SVSU students have turned their education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Alexis Chavarria
Read more…
Tory Thompson
Read more…

