URL: https://www.svsu.edu/geography/

Geography (BA)
SVSU
>
College of Arts and Behavioral Sciences
>
Geography Department
About
Geography is a multidisciplinary field as
complex and interconnected
as the world it studies. Geographers study people, places, the environment and history. Analyzing the world,
they try to understand the events
that led to present conditions and use that knowledge to
shape the world and the future.
If you like being outdoors, traveling and using technology to learn about the world and the environment, then the SVSU Geography program is for you. Combining scientific knowledge, critical thinking and the most advanced technology, students will translate classroom learning and applied research into professional practice. Students
benefit from small class sizes
and the valuable guidance of seven full-time faculty to help them
achieve their educational and career goals
. They can also take advantage of opportunities to travel and study abroad as well as present their work at conferences or gain valuable experience as an intern with a variety of government agencies and businesses. This diversified major
prepares SVSU Geography graduates for successful careers
in the multitude of fields and locations open to them.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
SVSU’s Geography program features
training and experience with Geographic Information Systems
, which encompasses work in land-use planning, educational administration and law enforcement in national, state and community governments.
Students have
access to high-end drones and other technology
for projects and research purposes.
The
Geographic Information Systems Certificate
is available to
complement a student’s primary field of study or strengthen
the resume of working professionals.
Gain experience in
community-engaged research
encompassing water security, public health, public safety, cultural resources management and environmental conservation.
Abundant opportunities for students to
study abroad and present their research at conferences.
What You’ll Study
In SVSU’s Geography program,
students
will study
human geography
(social sciences) and
physical geography
(earth sciences)—including Earth’s varied climates, environments and landforms. Students
will d
evelop specific skills like reading and interpreting maps and satellite images, and learn to evaluate
global events from a geographical perspective
. They will
examine contemporary environmental issues addressing human impacts
on air, water, land, soil, vegetation, animal species and natural resources. Topics include global climate change, energy types and use, water resources, air pollution, land cover change,
landscape identity,
hazardous waste, agriculture and food production, human
population and sustainability. Additionally, students will
discover how to translate classroom learning
and applied research into professional practice with valuable hands-on training in Remote Sensing (RS) and Geographic Information Systems (GIS)—
skills expected of entry-level employees in planning, mapping and natural resource agencies—
setting SVSU students apart when entering their career.
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Complementary Minors/Majors
Beyond The Books
Opportunities to Present Research Projects
Past research includes the Saginaw Bay watershed and crime mapping in the City of Saginaw. These research projects often lead to presentations at regional and national conferences.
Drone Research
Students have access to advanced technology for research, including drones.
Research on the Water
With the use of SVSU's boat, students can achieve research in new ways due to accessibility.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
U.S. Department of Defense
EROS Data Center
State of Michigan Department of Technology, Management and Budget
Hubbell, Roth and Clark, Inc.
Saginaw County
City of Saginaw
Bay County
Wade Trim
IHS Marketing
Duo Security
Graduate Programs
Saginaw Valley State University
Eastern Michigan University
Western Michigan University
Chicago State University
Indiana University
University of Michigan
University of Cincinnati
Career Opportunities
GIS Systems Developer
Targeting Analyst
Geo-Spatial Designer
Engineering Specialist
Economic Analyst
Transportation Specialist
Location Analyst
Regional Planning
Environmental Consulting
Computer Mapping
Park Service Ranger
After Graduation
7% projected growth for
employment of geographers with a bachelor’s degree. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$80,300 is the median yearly pay
for geographers in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s Geography program, career doors are open to a multitude of fields including
planning, mapping
and natural resource agencies. Graduates often go on to careers in education,
criminal justice, law enforcement
, municipal and government planning, conservation and many others
. Many students continue
their education in graduate schools nationwide.
Cardinal Successes
These stories offer insight into how students have turned their SVSU education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Erik Breidinger
Wins First Place
Read more…
News
Read More...

