URL: https://www.svsu.edu/graphicdesign/

Graphic Design (BA)
SVSU
>
College of Arts and Behavioral Sciences
>
Art Department
About
SVSU’s Graphic Design program
prepares students to analyze, understand and communicate
in the language of design. Students learn to apply their knowledge through the innovation and creation of new and effective designs. Students work closely with professors in small classes to
develop their artistic talent, skill and discipline
. In addition to a rich and varied curriculum, that includes branding, animation, time-based media, website, application, logo and typography design, students have access to numerous scholarships as well as opportunities to study abroad and exhibit their work in gallery settings.
Renowned artists
regularly visit as SVSU
enthusiastically fosters a diverse, supportive and vibrant art community
. Graduates from the program go on to careers in business, education and government, or enter highly respected graduate schools throughout the nation.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
The Art Department offers
multiple scholarships available to students
in the Art program.
Graphic Design students have many
opportunities to travel and study overseas
.
Internship, co-op and fieldwork opportunities are available
for students to gain experience working in the design profession.
Visiting artist
lecture and exhibition series for students to engage with acclaimed artists and their work.
The
University Art Gallery
displays student art alongside the work of r
enowned artists
.
What You’ll Study
Students learn the principles and practice of web design, logo and business identity design, typography, publication, illustration, video production, animation, branding and more. They are
exposed to the creativity
of other outstanding contemporary artists whose works are exhibited in the University Art Department Gallery, located on the first floor of the Arbury Fine Arts Center. Additionally, with professor guidance,
students develop their design portfolio and gain hands-on experience
through projects and internships, preparing them for the professional world or graduate school.
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Your Plan for a Successful College Experience
The Cardinal Plan is a unique outline created by faculty for your program at SVSU and serves as a guide for student success.
Complementary Minors/Majors
Beyond The Books
Exhibit Work
Students exhibit their work at the University Art Gallery in conjunction with the work of acclaimed contemporary artists and through collaboration with the Marshall M. Fredericks Sculpture Museum.
Student Organizations
SVSU offers a variety of clubs, such as fine art, photography, graphic design, video and film, virtual reality and comics.
Career Building Opportunities
SVSU offers multiple opportunities to enhance a student's expertise. Including work via Cardinal Solutions, an interdisciplinary team of students and professors who work with local businesses.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Quicken Loans
Perrin Brewery
Amigo Mobility International
Morley Companies
Regional Medical Imaging
Century 21
Henry Ford Museum
ICON Interactive
Graduate Programs
University of Idaho
Wayne State University
Ohio University
Indiana University
Kent State University
Michigan State University
University of Oregon
Career Opportunities
Graphic Designer
Web Designer
Art Director
Marketing Director
Logo Designer
Illustrator
App Designer (UX Designer)
After Graduation
4% projected growth
for the employment of designers with a bachelor’s degree through 2026. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$50,370 is the median yearly pay
for graphic designers in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree,
career doors are open to a multitude of fields
including marketing, art director,
web designer, illustrator, app designer, photographer
, printmaker, muralist, studio owner,
publishing
and so many more.
Cardinal Successes
The stories below offer insight into how our students have turned their SVSU education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Kaitlyn Zumbach
Graphic Design Alumni
Read more…
News
Read more…

