URL: https://www.svsu.edu/technologylearningsystemsanddesignma/

About the TLSD Program
Admission Requirements
Curriculum
Cost and Aid
Frequently Asked Questions
Office of Graduate Studies
SVSU
/
Technology Learning Systems and Design MA
MASTERS IN TECHNOLOGY LEARNING SYSTEMS AND DESIGN
✓ Master instructional design competencies
✓ Leverage technology for enriched learning
✓ Design tailored educational experiences for diverse sectors
Innovate Your Career with SVSU's Master in Technology Learning Systems & Design!
Meet Your Graduate Admissions Coordinator
My name is Tanika Williams, and I am here to help you navigate your path to earning your graduate degree. If you have any questions regarding specific programs or application requirements use one of the links below or feel free to text me at (989) 461-2050.
Apply Now
Meet With Tanika
Request Information
A Transformative Experience
The Learning Systems and Design degree blends the fields of education, psychology, and communications to create effective teaching and learning tools. Our program goes beyond simply creating training materials, students learn to carefully consider how others learn and what materials and methods will help individuals achieve their academic or training goals. Students can use what they learn in the classroom to teach any individual using modern innovative teaching methods. Whether it be in the classroom or in the workplace the graduates of this program will gain experience with how technology can be used when helping others learn the skills they need.
Accessible Admissions
Engaging and hands-on, SVSU’s Technology Learning Systems and Design program accept a bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university. A detailed list of requirements makes applying straightforward and simple.
See Admissions Requirements
Designed for Working Students
Offered fully online, our Technology Learning Systems and Design degree is made for the working student—with online classes you can learn from anywhere with an internet connection.
See Curriculum
Cost-effective and Competitive
More affordable than comparable programs with a variety of loans and scholarships available, SVSU’s Technology Learning Systems and Design program is a convenient and cost-effective way to advance your career.
See Program Cost
Doors that I didn’t even know where part of my journey have opened since I completed this degree at SVSU. After viewing my capstone project/portfolio, I was offered an opportunity to interview for an e-Learning internship at Volkswagen Group of America.
— Michelle Galindo
E-Learning Specialist - Volkswagon of America, Inc
Professional Organizations
CAST
The Association for the Advancement of Computing In Education
(AACE)
The International Society for Performance Improvement
(ISPI)
The International Technology & Engineering Education Association
(ITEEA)
The Society for Applied Learning Technology
(SALT)
Technical Committee on Learning Technology
(TCLT)
The International Society of The Learning Sciences
(ISLS)
The Instructional Technology Council
(ITC)
The Society for Information Technology & Teacher Education
(SITTE)
The Association for Educational Communications & Technology
(AECT)
The Elearning Guild
The Association for Talent Development
(ATD)
The International Society for Technology in Education
(ISTE)
The Michigan Association for Computer Users in Learning
(MACUL)
The Texas Computer Education Association
(TCEA)
Industry Outlook
SVSU's innovative instructional design program offers working adults a flexible solution for earning their degree from a highly-ranked and nationally recognized program.
Average Job Growth*
7%
Average Salary Range*
$64K/year
Average Job Placement Rate for SVSU Graduates
90.9%
*Stats are approximations, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, US Department of Labor
Apply Now
Meet With Tanika
CONTACT US.
Graduate Admissions
Wickes Hall 230
gradadm@svsu.edu
(989) 964-6096
College of Education
(989) 964-4057
coeconnect@svsu.edu
Tanika Williams
Graduate Admissions Coordinator
gradadm@svsu.edu
(989) 461-2050

