URL: https://www.svsu.edu/internationalbusiness/

International Business
SVSU
> The Scott L. Carmona College of Business  >
International Business
About
International business students
graduate with the skills and knowledge needed to prove themselves in a competitive global marketplace
. From supporting our students in obtaining proficiency in at least one foreign language, to encouraging our international business students to spend at least one semester abroad, SVSU welcomes students to experience an education that goes beyond the classroom while also preparing them with the core course requirements necessary to succeed in their future.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Cardinal Points
Multiple scholarships are available to students in the Business program,
including the College of Business Annual Scholarship, the Fabiano Brothers Business Scholarship and the Henry E. Schwartz Memorial Business Scholarship.
In conjunction with an SVSU bachelor’s degree, a
Certificate in International Business
will be awarded to all students upon satisfactory completion of some required courses and electives.
At SVSU, students participate in
business fraternities and nationally regarded associations
for professionals such as the AMA, DECA and APICS.
Programs (Major and Certificate)
International Business Major
International Business Certificate
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Michigan Economic Development Corporation
Lansing Board of Water & Light
CBRE Group
Tek Systems
Dart Container
Blackbaud Pacific
Dow
Bay Future, Inc.
Ford Motor Company
Chase
Career Opportunities
HR Generalist
Director, International Trade
Planning Engineer
Financial Analyst
Administrative Assistant
Economic Development Manager
Account Manager
Personal Banker
After Graduation table 2022
14% projected growth
for the employment of management analysts with a bachelor’s degree through 2028.
(U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$97,460 is the median yearly pay
for a management analyst in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s International Business program, students can have careers as management analysts, human resources managers, banking managers and more in international markets.
Cardinal Experiences
These stories offer insight into how students have turned their SVSU education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Hali Motley
International Business Major
Read more…
News
Read more…

