URL: https://www.svsu.edu/japaneselanguage/

Japanese (Minor)
SVSU
>
College of Arts and Behavioral Sciences
>
Japanese (Minor)
About
You may know exactly what you want to do and be after you graduate from college. But why limit your outlook to just one area of the world? When you pair your studies with a degree offered by
SVSU’s Department of Modern Foreign Languages
, you unleash a new realm of possibilities for yourself. As a Cardinal at SVSU, we’ll give you skills to be an educator or a foreign correspondent. Or, we’ll show you how to bring your business skills to boardrooms beyond this continent. Whatever your aspirations, SVSU’s Department of Modern Foreign Languages can help you achieve them.
Approved by both the Michigan Department of Education
and adhering to guidelines of the
American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages
, SVSU’s programs promise to equip you with the communication skills required for language proficiency. Your story starts when you apply to SVSU.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
Multiple scholarships are available
to students along their journey through the Modern Foreign Languages program, including Sebastian and Ida Ramet Endowed Scholarship for the Study of
Foreign Languages or Cultures
, International Study Abroad Endowed Scholarship.
Students have opportunities through Organizations and Activities such as the
Japanese Culture Club (JCC)
, the International Student Club (ISC) and much more.
Students have opportunities to s
tudy abroad
in locations
such as
Japan
to learn their culture more in-depth
.
"My time at SVSU shaped who I am and helped me figure out my academic and career goals. I have taken many interesting classes and had many excellent professors who supported and encouraged me. My Japanese professor, Dr. Monika Dix, has been especially helpful. The Japanese language program has classes in a variety of topics such as literature, culture, and communication. The assignments were fun and useful. We translated readings, wrote responses to interesting prompts, watched videos, and gave presentations on topics of our choice. There is also a Japanese club and conversation tables which are great ways to connect to others with an interest in Japanese. All of these really helped improve my Japanese skills. I also had the opportunity to do an independent study related to my specific interests, women and labor in Japan, which I really enjoyed." —
Madaleine Wesol '21, History major, Japanese minor
What You’ll Study
SVSU offers both majors and minors in French and Spanish and a minor in Japanese. You can also choose to pursue a French or Spanish major or minor with a teaching certification. The Department of Modern Foreign Languages offers immersive experiences and a comprehensive language lab to develop proficiency. Our faculty integrate technological resources, online tools and multimedia in their courses, ensuring you engage with a language in a variety of contexts and forms. The Spanish, French and Japanese programs all hold weekly conversation hours where you interact with native or near-native speakers, improving your skills in the best way possible: practice.
Do you have questions about Japanese placement tests, course planning and advising? Contact the MFL Department Chair, Professor Monika Dix at
mdix@svsu.edu
.
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Complementary Minors/Majors
Beyond The Books
Foreign Language Day
Since 1976, the Department of Modern Foreign Languages at Saginaw Valley State University (SVSU) has sponsored an annual Foreign Language Day for high school students.
Learning Facilities
The Lab is equipped with Sony/Sans Virtuoso Major and Soloist software. The Lab is open for the use of all language students during the hours specifically listed as "Open" on the Lab schedules.
Student Organizations & Activities
Students have opportunities through Organizations and Activities such as the Japanese Culture Club (JCC), the International Student Club (ISC) and much more.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
K12
Educational Testing Service (ETS)
Career Opportunities
Spanish Teacher
Rater
Interpreter
After Graduation
19% (Much faster than average) projected growth
for the employment of Interpreters and Translators with a Bachelor’s degree through 2028. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$46,276 is the average yearly pay
for a Japanese Foreign Language Teacher Salaries in the U.S. in 2020. (Glassdoor.com Salaries)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s Modern Foreign Languages program, Students in the department study at home and abroad, preparing for
new adventures
upon graduation. Whatever their fight plans take them, Cardinal test their wings here. The sky is the limit for their bright futures.
SVSU: Connect
Fully integrated into social networks,
SVSU Connect
is a valuable networking space
dedicated to the community of SVSU students, faculty and alumni which cultivates a culture of helping and giving back. In addition to
connecting with each other
, students at all points along their journey can reach out to alumni mentors for guidance and insight into
making the most of their SVSU experience and successfully transitioning into life after graduation.

