URL: https://www.svsu.edu/ltcacertificate/

Long-Term Care Administrator (LTCA) Certificate
SVSU
>
College of Health & Human Services
>
Health Science
About
Earn your Long-Term Care Administrator Certificate ONLINE and in just two semesters!
An aging population and a growing number of individuals needing lifelong healthcare services has led to a demand for administrators who can provide leadership and support in assisted living facilities, nursing homes, and other healthcare locations.
The Long-Term Care Administrator Certificate provides an opportunity for long-term care professionals to develop the skills and knowledge needed to meet Michigan nursing home administrator licensing rules.  In addition, this certificate prepares students for the National Association of Long-Term Care Administrator Boards’ Nursing Home Administrators (NHA) Exam.
This certificate program is built specifically for the online learning environment by our expert faculty. Students will be able to enjoy the full classroom experience, which includes theoretical and real-world learning opportunities as they actively engage with their peers.
For more information please contact Christine Noller, JD., LLM, Associate Professor, Health Science,
cnoller@svsu.edu
.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
Complete your LTC Administrator Certificate in two semesters (9 credits).
Asynchronous ONLINE course format conducive to the needs of working professionals
Prepares students for the National Association of Long-Term Care Administrator Boards’ Nursing Home Administrators (NHA) Exam, a requirement for Michigan Nursing Home Administrator Licensure
Career / Internship Opportunities
This certificate is an excellent addition to aspiring leaders in nursing, social work, dietetics and healthcare. As career opportunities in long term care continue to grow, there is a greater demand than ever for individuals with some preparation for roles in long term care organizations. As you advance your career and experience, the SVSU Long-Term Care Administrator Certificate program will help prepare you for many roles in long term care, with just a few of those listed below:
Dietician
Director of Social Services
Clinical Nurse Consultant
Home Health
Dietary Manager
Health Informatics
LTC Certificate Requirements
The program includes a total of 9 credits as listed below (each course is 3 credits).
HS 320 – Chronic Illness and Long-Term Care
Chronic Illness is explored as a common condition of aging affecting individuals and families. Care needs and options for the aging population are examined; topics include self-care, family care, home care, assisted living and nursing home care.
HS 471 – Long-Term Care Facility Operations
This course explores the unique aspects of long-term care facility operations and examines the theory and practice of service delivery and safety within the healthcare continuum.
HS 472 – Long-Term Care Regulation and Reimbursement
This course examines the quality and safety standards for LTC facilities set forth by regulatory agencies. In addition, the processes of financial eligibility and reimbursement will be described.
SVSU: Connect
Fully integrated into social networks,
SVSU Connect
is a valuable networking space
dedicated to the community of SVSU students, faculty and alumni which cultivates a culture of helping and giving back. In addition to
connecting with each other
, students at all points along their journey can reach out to alumni mentors for guidance and insight into
making the most of their SVSU experience and successfully transitioning into life after graduation.

