URL: https://www.svsu.edu/longtermcareminor/

Long-Term Care Minor
SVSU
>
College of Health & Human Services
>
Health Science
About
The Long-Term Care Minor provides students with an understanding of long-term care principles and operations in preparation for administration positions in Long-Term Care settings.
An aging population and a growing number of individuals needing lifelong healthcare services has led to a demand for health administration professionals who can provide leadership and support in assisted living facilities, nursing homes, and other healthcare locations.
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, jobs for nursing home administrators are expected to grow 17 percent by 2024. As the U.S. population ages, nursing home administrator jobs will continue to be in high demand since the country will need additional long-term care facilities. These facilities require well-educated, experienced professionals to direct operations and serve in this important leadership role.
The average salary for nursing home administrators is $78,540 a year. Salaries depend on the geographic location of the nursing home as well as the facility’s size.
This minor is built specifically for the online learning environment by our expert faculty. Students will be able to enjoy the full classroom experience, which includes theoretical and real-world learning opportunities as they actively engage with their peers.
For more information please contact Christine Noller, JD., LLM, Associate Professor, Health Science,
cnoller@svsu.edu
.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
As part of this minor students will complete the three courses of the Long-Term Administrator Certificate which prepares students for the National Association of Long-Term Care Administrator Boards’ Nursing Home Administrators (NHA) Exam, a requirement for Michigan Nursing Home Administrator Licensure.
Students can complete the Long-Term Care Minor within one academic year.
Asynchronous ONLINE course format conducive to the needs of working students.
Career Opportunities
The Long-Term Care Minor is an excellent addition to aspiring leaders in Healthcare, Nursing, Social Work, Dietetics, Psychology, Geriatrics and Physical Therapy. As career opportunities in long term care continue to grow, there is a greater demand than ever for individuals with some preparation for roles in long term care organizations. As you advance your career and experience, the SVSU Long-Term Care Administrator Minor will help prepare you for many roles in long term care, with just a few of those listed below:
Nursing Home Administrator
Nursing Home Director of Nursing
Nursing Home Nursing Supervisor
Nursing Home Director of Resident Care
Nursing Home Resident Care Supervisor
Nursing Home Director of Marketing and Admissions
Director of Nursing Home Health
Nursing Home Dietary Director
Nursing Home Activities Director
Nursing Home Health Information Manager
Long-Term Care Minor Requirements
This 15 credit Long-Term Care Minor Curriculum includes:
HS 310 Healthy Aging (3 credits)
HS 320 Healthy Illness and Long-Term Care (3 credits)
HS 330 Death and Dying (3 credits)
HS 471 Long Term Care Facility Operations (3 credits)
HS 472 Long Term Care Regulation and Reimbursement (3 credits)

