URL: https://www.svsu.edu/managementbba/

Management
SVSU
> The Scott L. Carmona College of Business  > Management and Marketing
About
Management (BBA) majors quickly learn the essentials of effective leadership as they
solve real-world performance and structural problems
at an organizational level. From learning to navigate the dynamics of interpersonal communication, via internships in major organizations like Rocket Mortgage and Nexteer, to questioning the stereotypical framework of organizational design—
Management students rise to the challenge of being tomorrow's leaders.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
Management students are offered
internships with major organizations
like Rocket Mortgage, Nexteer, Aramark, Duro-Last, Dow and more!
More than
90% of the faculty
belong to a professional or service organization,
providing diverse networking opportunities for students.
Programs (Majors and Minors)
Management Major
Management Minor for Business Students
Management Minor for Non-Business Students
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Verizon Wireless
Morley Companies, Inc.
Michigan Department of Transportation
Navitus Health Solutions
Nexteer Automotive Corporation
Gestamp North America
Walmart
Quicken Loans Community Investment Fund
Saginaw Charter Township
DML Management Inc.
Dow
Career Opportunities
Management Analyst
Manager of Private Businesses
Customer Service Manager
Branch Manager
Human Resources Manager
Project Manager
Department Manager
After Graduation 2022
7% projected growth
for the employment of Administrative Services Managers with a Bachelor’s degree through 2026. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$96,180 is the median yearly pay
for an Administrative Services Manager in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s Management program,
students are prepared for a multitude of careers
including government, business, education, publishing and marketing as a
management analyst, private business manager, customer service manager, branch manager, human resources manager
and so many more.
Cardinal Successes
These stories offer insight into how SVSU students have turned their education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Brandon Jones
Management Major
Read more…
Nicole Calendrino 
Management Alum
Read more…

