URL: https://www.svsu.edu/marketingbba/

Marketing
SVSU
> The Scott L. Carmona College of Business  > Management and Marketing
About
The Marketing program
challenges students to identify key markets
for products and services by actively analyzing the wants and needs of their consumers. With access to behavior and big data labs as well as SAP technology,
marketing students develop, manage and defend self-made marketing and advertising campaigns
from start to finish. Through these real-world assignments, where client-sponsored projects are almost a part of every class,
marketing students don't just contend with rival interest groups—they rise above them.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
Marketing students work on
client-funded, real-world projects,
applying what they learn in class.
Students have the opportunity for internships with major organizations
like Rocket Mortgage, Doner Advertising, Saginaw Spirit, Nexteer, Coffee Beanery, University Directories, Aramark, Duro-Last, Aflac and more!
Marketing students have
access to exceptional campus resources
ranging from
behavioral labs for consumer research to SAP
, a globally recognized enterprise resource planning software.
Programs (Majors, Minors and Certificates)
Marketing Major
Marketing Minor for Business Students
Marketing Minor for Non-Business Students
Digital Marketing Certificate
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Los Angeles Chargers
Saginaw Spirit
Instar Performance
Dow
BlueWater Angels
Saginaw Valley State University
Morley Companies, Inc.
Graduate Programs
Saginaw Valley State University
Career Opportunities
Director of Creative Services
Enterprise Systems Generalist
Director of Corporate and Ticket Partnerships
Events & Special Projects Coordinator
Director of Marketing & Business Development
After Graduation 2022
20% projected growth
for the employment of a market research analyst with a Bachelor’s degree through 2028. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$134, 290 is the median yearly pay
for a marketing manager in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s Marketing program,
students are prepared for a multitude of careers
including
advertising, promotions and marketing managers
;
public relations
specialists; public relations and fundraising managers and so many more.
Cardinal Successes
These stories offer insight into how SVSU students have turned their education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Jessica Schafer-Thomas
Marketing Major
Read more…
Sloan Klaski
Marketing Major
Read more…

