URL: https://www.svsu.edu/teaching/specializations/specialeducation/

Benefits of an MAT Degree
Admission Requirements
MAT Programs & Specializations
Early Childhood Clasroom Teaching
K-12 Literacy Specialist
Special Education
Advising
Helpful Links
College of Education
Graduate Programs
SVSU
/
Teaching
/
MAT Programs & Specializations
/
Special Education
Master of Arts in Teaching - Special Education
The Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) Degree in Special Education is an ideal degree program for classroom teachers who wish to pursue teaching in the area of special education.  In addition, those who enroll in this program will have the potential to build confidence in teaching, gain new ideas for current best practices of teaching, develop skills for reaching all students, and share ideas with other professionals in the field.  This program is supported by highly qualified faculty who provide an excellent combination of theoretical and practical knowledge. (37 credits)
Benefits of a Special Education Degree
Special education teachers work with children and youths who have a variety of disabilities. A small number of special education teachers work with students with severe cognitive, emotional, or physical disabilities, primarily teaching them life skills and basic literacy. However, the majority of special education teachers work with children with mild to moderate disabilities, using or modifying the general education curriculum to meet the child's individual needs and providing required remedial instruction. Most special education teachers instruct students at the preschool, elementary, middle, and secondary school level, although some work with infants and toddlers.
Employment of special education teachers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2014 to 2024, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Employment growth will be driven by continued demand for special education services. Many job opportunities will stem from the need to replace teachers who leave the occupation. The median annual wage of special education teachers was $57,910 in May 2016.
http://www.bls.gov/
Master of Arts in Teaching: Special Education
Ideal for classroom teachers who wish to pursue teaching in the area of special education.
Individuals interested in applying to our MAT program are encouraged to contact their Faculty Advisor according to specialization for further information and to discuss various options. To schedule an appointment, please contact the appropriate advisor (based on the first letter of your last name) directly by phone or email.
MAT Special Education - Autism Spectrum Disorder
A-Z
Dr. Holly Long
hlong1@svsu.edu
GN 215
(989) 964-2848
MAT Special Education -Cognitive Impairment
A-Z
Dr. Adam LeRoy
asleroy@svsu.edu
GN 289
(989) 964-4958
MAT Special Education Learning Disabilities
A-Z
Dr. Jennifer Ward
jlward@svsu.edu
GN 284
(989) 964-4667
CONTACT US.
College of Education
Gilbertson Hall
coeconnect@svsu.edu
(989) 964-4057

