URL: https://www.svsu.edu/math/

Mathematics (BS)
SVSU
>
College of Science, Engineering & Technology
>
Mathematics
About
Solving problems that require critical and analytical thinking
, as well as quantitative literacy, are fundamental to mathematics. The Mathematics program pushes students to develop these skills with the guidance of full-time, dedicated faculty. With small class sizes and individualized attention,
students flourish in initial calculus courses before moving on to more general mathematical concepts and structures
. With access to advanced software and a host of resources at their disposal,
Mathematics majors are able to dedicate rigorous thought to pure mathematical concepts and engage in financially supported research
. SVSU also offers up healthy exposure to mathematical competitions, symposiums, internships and outreach events to support students and prepare them for future careers or further education. At the end of the day,
these mathematics majors don't just study patterns, puzzles and abstraction—they explore ideas.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
The SVSU Department of Mathematical Sciences offers students the opportunity to
conduct undergraduate research
with financial support and dedicated research space.
Mathematics students have access to advanced software
such as Maple CAS, Minitab, SPSS and MATLAB to further grow during their collegiate career.
Small class sizes (maximum of 30) and 23 full-time faculty assure
students have close and personal attention
, including faculty advising.
Scholarships are available
specifically for majors offered by the Department of Mathematical Sciences.
Mathematics majors can work as tutors
in the Math and Physics Tutoring Center and obtain paid research positions.
What You’ll Study
The SVSU Mathematics major offers the
best preparation for future research in mathematics
, including graduate school. It begins with a strong four-semester calculus sequence, followed by more key mathematical structures and theoretical concepts in algebra and analysis via courses such as abstract algebra, real analysis and complex analysis.
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Your Plan for a Successful College Experience
The Cardinal Plan is a unique outline created by faculty for your program at SVSU and serves as a guide for student success.
Complementary Majors/Minors
Beyond The Books
Student Research
Students have opportunities to conduct research alongside faculty with student financial support. This includes presenting the research at local, regional and national conferences. The Department of Mathematical Sciences has 19 Ph.D. faculty.
Events
Students have the opportunity to participate in state and national level math competitions and attend a variety of speaker presentations, social activities, clubs and organizations.
Outreach Activities
The Department of Mathematical Sciences organizes community outreach programs for area middle and high school students, such as the SVSU Math Tutoring and Mentoring Program, the Summer STEM Opportunities Camp and the annual SVSU Math Olympics competition.
After Graduation
28% projected growth
of employment across all math occupations through 2028. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$88,190 is the median yearly pay
for mathematicians and statisticians in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a degree in Mathematics, students will be prepared to explore many different career outlets, including
industry, government agencies, educational institutions
and
banking
with jobs in
research, data science, teaching, actuary, finance
and numerous others. Students will also be well-prepared to go on to graduate school.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Auto-Owners Insurance
Northwestern Mutual
Ally Financial
Quicken Loans
Gateway Financial  Solutions
Covenant Healthcare
Many Michigan schools (teachers)
Graduate Programs
Michigan State University
University of Nebraska
Purdue University
Boston University
Indiana University
Wayne State University
Central Michigan University
Career Opportunities
Actuary
Statistician
Financial Advisor
Teacher
Data Analyst
Mathematician
Cardinal Successes
These stories offer insight into how SVSU students have turned their education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Dylan McKnight (Class of 2017)
Read More
News
Read Here
SVSU: Connect
Fully integrated into social networks,
SVSU Connect
is a valuable networking space
dedicated to the community of SVSU students, faculty and alumni which cultivates a culture of helping and giving back. In addition to
connecting with each other
, students at all points along their journey can reach out to alumni mentors for guidance and insight into
making the most of their SVSU experience and successfully transitioning into life after graduation.

