URL: https://www.svsu.edu/mechanicalengineeringbsme/

Mechanical Engineering (BSME)
SVSU
>
College of Science, Engineering & Technology
>
Mechanical Engineering
About
The Mechanical Engineering program
dares the next generation of inventors and problem-solvers to take on their greatest challenge yet
by introducing their creative visions to academia. At SVSU,
students strive to develop, build and improve upon machines or the overall design process
in this interactive and fast-paced, ABET-accredited program. With access to 15 modern, state-of-the-art laboratories that support teaching, student research and extracurricular projects, students delve into everything from solid prototyping to robotics. Expert faculty provide the knowledge and skills that enable students to
unlock the secrets behind mechanical devices and make discoveries as they strive to address complex problems
. At the undergraduate level, cardinal engineers gain a working knowledge of research and design
culminating in a two-semester, fully-funded, industry-sponsored, capstone design experience.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
Cardinal Formula Racing
is a faculty-led student racing team that
competes in the Formula SAE Collegiate Design Series competitions
where SVSU has been
ranked first in acceleration
amongst global competitors!
Pioneer Hall
features 15 modern laboratories
ranging from robotics and metallography to independent testing and heat transfer. Each lab is uniquely different.
As a part of their
Senior Design Project
, students work with an outside company like
Walboro, S.C. Johnson, Duro-Last or Polaris
to design a new product, custom testing apparatus or improve manufacturing processes.
The Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET,
https://www.abet.org
, under the General Criteria and the Mechanical and Similarly Named Engineering Programs Program Criteria.
What You’ll Study
SVSU's Mechanical Engineering program offers a
strong foundation in chemistry, physics, mathematics and advanced engineering courses
. Students majoring in the program have the opportunity to
test themselves with competitive labs and research opportunities
. Life as a Mechanical Engineering major includes a strong curriculum, industry internships and a fully funded capstone project!
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Your Plan for a Successful College Experience
The Cardinal Plan is a unique outline created by faculty for your program at SVSU and serves as a guide for student success.
Complimentary Minors/Majors
Beyond The Books
Cardinal Formula Racing
Students build a car from concept to completion to compete in the Formula SAE Collegiate Competition Series each year, which features nine international events and over 300 student lead teams worldwide.
Clubs and Organizations
There are clubs and organizations that cater to the interests of engineering majors, such as the Society of Automotive Engineers (FSAE), American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) and American Foundry Society.
Research Opportunities
Many faculty have active research projects in materials, manufacturing, heat transfer, numerical modeling, rapid prototyping and etc. Opportunities for independent study or employment as undergraduate researchers occurs regularly.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Nexteer Automotive
Weatherford
Hemlock Semiconductor Corporation
Verso Corporation
J.R. Motorsports (NASCAR)
Dow
Mistequay Group
Ford Motor Company
Duro-Last
Fiat Chrysler Automobiles
General Motors Company
Career Opportunities
Product Engineer
Product Applications Engineer
Field Engineer
Reliability Engineer
Project Engineer/Coordinator
Design Release Engineer
After Graduation
10% projected growth
for employment of mechanical engineers with a bachelor's degree through 2028. (O*NET, Michigan Employment Trends)
$96,310 is the median yearly pay
for a mechanical engineer in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor's degree from SVSU's Mechanical Engineering program, students are prepared for a host of careers such as
professional engineers
and
entrepreneurs.
Cardinal Successes
The stories below offer insight into how our students have turned their SVSU education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
2019 Mechanical Engineering Students
Read more…
Alex Fullerton
Mechanical Engineering Major
Read more…
SVSU: Connect
Fully integrated into social networks,
SVSU Connect
is a valuable networking space
dedicated to the community of SVSU students, faculty and alumni which cultivates a culture of helping and giving back. In addition to
connecting with each other
, students at all points along their journey can reach out to alumni mentors for guidance and insight into
making the most of their SVSU experience and successfully transitioning into life after graduation.

