URL: https://www.svsu.edu/medlabsciencebs/

Medical Laboratory Science (BS)
SVSU
>
College of Health & Human Services
>
Medical Laboratory Science
About
When Medical Laboratory Science (MLS) students earn their degree at Saginaw Valley State University, they are
empowered to gain the skills and experience critical to the healthcare industry,
providing the data physicians and other medical professionals use to make accurate diagnoses and recommend treatment plans for patients globally. At SVSU, students will
complete their professional classes in a small cohort
, learning from faculty who serve as mentors as well as critical connections to the professional world. In this accredited program, students will be able to take the National Board of Certification Exam to become a
nationally certified MLS
upon graduation. Graduates exhibit
a well above national average board certification pass rate
and are extremely marketable in the growing health care industry, and are making a difference in both the Great Lakes Bay region's robust medical science industry, and far beyond.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Program
Cardinal Points
The Medical Laboratory Science program is
accredited by the National Accrediting Agency for Clinical Laboratory Sciences (NAACLS).
Find the SVSU MLS Outcomes Report here.
The program's
senior class attends
the annual conference of the
American Society of Clinical Laboratory Science-Michigan
to network and learn leading research methods and techniques.
The program features its own
clinical laboratory
—open to students—with
specialized equipment and instruments
used for performing laboratory tests.
What You’ll Study
The Medical Laboratory Science (MLS) program is a professional program that best serves individuals seeking healthcare careers that
cultivate their naturally scientific, analytical and inquisitive nature.
The curriculum consists of basic science, general education and profession-specific courses that include critical pathway and critical decision-making exercises.
Students gain a distinct advantage
with a strong foundation in science by taking courses in biology, anatomy, physiology, inorganic and organic chemistry,
pathophysiology, physics, biochemistry and healthcare ethics.
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Your Plan for a Successful College Experience
The Cardinal Plan is a unique outline created by faculty for your program at SVSU and serves as a guide for student success.
Beyond The Books
Field Experience
Students embark on a 22-week internship during their last semester in an accredited lab affiliated with SVSU. Often, students are offered full-time employment where they complete their field experience.
Facilities
MLS has a laboratory and a prep room with microscopes with oil immersion lens, automated analyzers for hematology, chemistry and coagulation, spectrophotometers, incubators and a variety of additional instruments used for performing laboratory tests.
Medical Laboratory Science Organization
Students participate in educational activities relevant to Medical Laboratory Science such as attendance to the ASCLS-MI State conference.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Covenant HealthCare
McLaren, various regions
St. John Providence Health System
MidMichigan Health
Ascension St. Mary's Hospital
Beaumont Hospital
Graduate Programs
University of Michigan School of Dentistry
Michigan State University
Saginaw Valley State University
Career Opportunities
Medical Laboratory Scientist in:
Hospital Laboratories
Reference Laboratories
Blood Centers
Research, Biotechnology, Pharmaceutical, Commercial/Specialty Labs
Technical Sales or Service Representative
Laboratory Administration
Quality Assurance
Laboratory Information Systems
Education
After Graduation
13% projected growth
for the employment of a medical laboratory technician. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$52,330 is the median yearly pay
for a medical laboratory technician in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s Medical Laboratory Science program, career doors are open to a
multitude of laboratory employment opportunities and graduates enjoy a very high placement rate.
Cardinal Successes
The stories below offer insight into how our students have turned their SVSU education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Carly McKenzie
Read more…
Sean Suitor
Read more…
SVSU: Connect
Fully integrated into social networks,
SVSU Connect
is a valuable networking space
dedicated to the community of SVSU students, faculty and alumni which cultivates a culture of helping and giving back. In addition to
connecting with each other
, students at all points along their journey can reach out to alumni mentors for guidance and insight into
making the most of their SVSU experience and successfully transitioning into life after graduation.

