URL: https://www.svsu.edu/music/

Music (BA) and Music Education (BA)
SVSU
>
College of Arts and Behavioral Sciences
>
Music Department
About
Saginaw Valley State University's Music and Music Education programs are designed to help students inspired to explore careers in music to accomplish their goals and ambitions.
Our students receive
personal attention from full-time faculty
who are active directors and performers in the industry. Students will also enjoy the convenience of
small class sizes
, benefit from numerous leadership, workshop and performance opportunities and
interact with top-of-the-line technology as part of the department's emphasis on real-world skills
. SVSU music students have
access to a 20-seat iMac lab
fully equipped with a smartboard, iPad integration and professional music software.
Scholarship opportunities
, powerful technology, opportunities for students to develop their intellectual, personal and musical abilities through varied classes and non-curricular activities and
the sheer variety of genres and ensembles available at SVSU make these programs stand out.
Apply to Music
Events
Marching Band
Request Info
Cardinal Points
SVSU
awards approximately
$75,000 in music scholarships
annually, not including academic awards outside of the department
.
SVSU is home to a
world-class recital hall
that is recognized as one of the
most acoustically favorable music spaces
in the region.
The Concert Choir often collaborates with the
Saginaw Choral Society and the Saginaw Bay Symphony Orchestra.
Performance opportunities include
Cardinal Singers, Marching Band, Wind Ensemble, Concert Choir, and Jazz Ensembles.
SVSU also has small ensembles such as
jazz combos and the brass quintet.
Students have access to
Ableton Suite workstations with Push 2 pads and a mobile recording station
as part of our emphasis on real-world music industry skills.
What You’ll Study
In the Music program at SVSU, students will encounter a
modern music curriculum
with a
focus in performance
along with the advantages of a
liberal arts education
. Students will have opportunities to work with K-12 students as well as
collaborate with theatre
on-stage productions. Additionally, classes help
students gain analytical and listening skills
needed for success in
real-world music careers
.
Your Plan for a Successful College Experience
The Cardinal Plan is a unique outline created by faculty for your program at SVSU and serves as a guide for student success.
Complementary Minors/Majors* (Music students are required to have a major, Music Education students are not.)
Beyond The Books
Masterclasses
Students have opportunities to experience concerts and participate in masterclasses offered by world-class performers through SVSU's Rhea Miller Concert Series.
NATS Voice Competitions
Student vocalists participate annually in the National Association of Teachers of Singing voice competition where SVSU students compete at state and regional levels.
Annual Outreach
Annual outreach clinics such as the Jazz Clinic, Choral Clinic, Concert Band Festival, Brass Day, Percussion Day and Flute Day focus on high school students and ensembles.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Unionville-Sebewaing Area Schools
Bay City Public Schools
Midland Public Schools
Saginaw Public Schools
Saginaw Arts and Sciences Academy
Saginaw Choral Society
Tiffin University
Graduate Programs
Central Michigan University
Western Michigan University
Bowling Green State University
Eastman School of Music
Vandercook College
Career Opportunities
Music Teacher
Community Music Organizer
Music Faculty
Performer
Music Therapist
Private Music Teacher
Early Childhood Music Educator
After Graduation
6% projected growth for the
employment
of music directors and composers with a Bachelor’s degree through 2026.
(U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$60,320 is the median yearly pay for a music teacher
in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s Music program, career doors are open to a multitude of fields including
positions in
music education,
performance
, composing/arranging music,
conducting
, music therapy,
as well as
production studios
in
the recording industry
.
Cardinal Successes
These stories offer insight into how our students have turned their SVSU education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Madalyn McHugh 
Auditioning for Broadway
Read more…
News
Read More...

