URL: https://www.svsu.edu/neurosciencebs/

Neuroscience (BS)
SVSU
>
College of Health & Human Services
>
Health Science
About
SVSU's Neuroscience program emphasizes the fundamentals of neuroscience while exploring experimental approaches, current techniques, challenges and concepts within the ever evolving field. To prepare for
an immersive, hands-on laboratory research experience at the undergraduate level
, students must demonstrate competency in quantitative and evidence-based reasoning via their coursework. As students progress, they
dig into research at the Neuroscience Research Laboratory
and support faculty on existing projects or develop their own to improve upon academia's working knowledge of how the brain and nervous system function. The program is hyper-focused and committed to five areas of research and rehabilitative medicine: Alzheimer’s disease, Huntington’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, traumatic brain injury and stroke.
Students work side-by-side with nationally-recognized researchers, neurologists and neurosurgeons
to publish papers and present at conferences across the nation. At SVSU,
these cardinals don't just learn about and defend the latest studies—they advance them!
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
Students have a key role in the
research conducted at the Neuroscience Research Laboratory at SVSU.
The program culminates with a field experience with neurologists or neurosurgeons
in a faculty-approved organization or a capstone research experience.
SVSU's instructional facilities feature modern, fully-equipped laboratories
that have major equipment available for separation and analysis, spectroscopy, surface analysis and more.
Health Sciences faculty are widely published
and have presented internationally, received numerous research grants and pride themselves on
including undergraduate students in their research projects
.
What You’ll Study
SVSU’s Neuroscience program offers a
strong foundation in biology, physiology and anatomy with an emphasis on chemistry, statistics and healthcare ethics.
The overarching goal of the Neuroscience major is to provide students with the requisite academic background, technical skills and
hands-on research experience that will allow them to successfully compete
for admission to high-quality graduate or professional (medical, physical therapy, dentistry, etc.) schools or help them to advance in neuroscience-related jobs in both the private and public sectors.
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Your Plan for a Successful College Experience
The Cardinal Plan is a unique outline created by faculty for your program at SVSU and serves as a guide for student success.
Complementary Minors
Beyond The Books
Neuroscience Research Laboratory (NRL)
Work at the NRL revolves around how the brain (and behavior) changes following traumatic brain injury.
Active Student Organizations
Students explore neuroscience by participating in extracurricular activities such as the Chemistry and Biology Clubs or the Health Professions Association.
Honors Program
The Honors Program allows students to pursue their degree work while providing enriched academic experiences in Honors Program courses, seminars, research projects and social activities.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
N/A - Students typically opt for graduate or professional schools after graduation.
Graduate Programs
University of Texas - Austin
University of Kentucky
University of Pittsburgh
University of Rochester
Medical University of South Carolina
Career Opportunities
Neuroscientist
Researcher
Clinical Psychologist
Psychiatrist
Pharmaceuticals
Forensic Science
After Graduation
8% projected growth
for the employment of neuroscientists with a Ph.D. through 2028. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$84,810 is the median yearly pay
for a neuroscientist in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s Neuroscience program,
students are prepared for graduate studies
to take on careers as neurosurgeons, neuroscientists, researchers, and neurologists.
Cardinal Successes
These stories offer insight into how SVSU students have turned their education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Zackary Bowers
Neuroscience Alum
Read more…
News
Read more…
SVSU: Connect
Fully integrated into social networks,
SVSU Connect
is a valuable networking space
dedicated to the community of SVSU students, faculty and alumni which cultivates a culture of helping and giving back. In addition to
connecting with each other
, students at all points along their journey can reach out to alumni mentors for guidance and insight into
making the most of their SVSU experience and successfully transitioning into life after graduation.

