URL: https://www.svsu.edu/nursingrntobsn/

Nursing (RN to BSN)
SVSU
>
College of Health & Human Services
> Nursing (old)
About
SVSU welcomes
nurses interested in returning to school
for their bachelor's degree. In this flexible RN to BSN program, students will
grow alongside other RNs
as they embark on a fully online experience that caters to their familial and work schedules. The courses encourage completion in four semesters (one year) on a part-time basis and provide students with the necessary
leadership, collaboration, communication and advocacy skills to serve them better
in their careers. Clinical experiences consist of online simulation experiences,
connecting with preceptors
, developing quality improvement projects and
questioning esteemed faculty
in order to better discover every facet of nursing. As a cardinal, students will
unleash their full potential while exploring their role
within the community that they serve.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
SVSU recently updated its
RN to BSN curriculum to better serve working professionals.
The program has a registered nurse as their RN to BSN Coordinator that
serves to advise and guide students
during
every step of their collegiate experience.
Students have access to the online library resources, tutoring services and the simulation laboratory—which is
one of only four accredited Simulation Centers in Michigan
by the Society for Simulation in Healthcare.
The baccalaureate degree program in nursing at Saginaw Valley State University is accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (
http://ccneaccreditation.org
).
What You’ll Study
SVSU’s RN to BSN program offers a strong foundation in statistics with an emphasis on higher-level nursing courses after the first semester. An
individualized plan of study is created
for each student to encourage
personal growth within the program.
Students will also experience clinical courses to teach them how to
apply their knowledge and skills in real-world settings.
Complementary Minors/Majors
Beyond The Books
Clinicals
SVSU's Nursing Clinical Coordinator places students at over 75 agencies statewide, including Bay County Department of Public Health, Covenant Health Care, HealthSource, Home and Hospice Advantage, Mid Michigan Health and many more.
Veteran Affairs (VA) Nursing Academic Partnership
SVSU and the Aleda E. Lutz Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Saginaw has an ongoing academic partnership that provides clinical and simulated experiences for nursing students, along with many other benefits and opportunities.
Active Student Organizations
Students connect and grow with others in extracurricular activities such as Sigma Theta Tau and the Student Nurses Association.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Ascension
Children's Hospital of Michigan
Children's Hospital of Wisconsin
Covenant HealthCare
MyMichigan Health
McLaren Health Care
Mobile Medical Response
Spectrum Health
Graduate Programs
Saginaw Valley State University
Career Opportunities
Nurse Associate
Mental Health Resource Nurse
Registered Nurse
Registered Nurse, Neonatal Intensive Care Unit
Emergency Room Nurse
Emergency Medical Technician
After Graduation
12% projected growth
for the employment of a registered nurse with a bachelor’s degree through 2028. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$71,730 is the median yearly pay
for a registered nurse in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree in Nursing from SVSU,
students are ready
for graduate school to become a nurse practitioner or to hit the workforce as a registered nurse working
in clinics
, educational institutions
, health agencies, senior centers,
hospitals
or
mental health facilities.
Cardinal Successes
These stories offer insight into how SVSU students have turned their education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Heather Harvey
Nursing Major
Read more…
News
Read more…
SVSU: Connect
Fully integrated into social networks,
SVSU Connect
is a valuable networking space
dedicated to the community of SVSU students, faculty and alumni which cultivates a culture of helping and giving back. In addition to
connecting with each other
, students at all points along their journey can reach out to alumni mentors for guidance and insight into
making the most of their SVSU experience and successfully transitioning into life after graduation.

