URL: https://www.svsu.edu/physics/

Physics (BS)
SVSU
>
College of Science, Engineering & Technology
>
Physics Department
About
Physics is the study of
matter, energy and generally how the universe behaves.
This is usually done through in-depth investigation of the physical world around us, including
sound, light, electricity, magnetism
and the structure of atoms. The physical world is a dynamic one, with new discoveries taking place that change the way we look at the universe. The SVSU Physics program is prepared to help you learn to
navigate this field and prepare you for your future plans
, whether for graduate school or a career. You will receive the
fundamental scientific training
to enable you to
make discoveries of your own
. You will learn to work individually and collaborate with others as you progress through the entire course of study. You will be exposed to comprehensive knowledge of physics in both
theoretical and experimental work
, where you will learn to carry out precise, meaningful measurements of physical data. From its courses to its
dedicated professors
, the SVSU Physics program will help better your understanding of this demanding field throughout your
intellectual journey
and prepare you to achieve your professional goals.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
Students in the program have
published their research i
n top professional journals
such as the
Journal of
Statistical Mechanics: Theory and Experiment
, and
European Journal of Physics
.
Students, upon graduation, have been
accepted into various graduate programs in physics and engineering
such as
Pennsylvania State University and University of Wisconsin. Such appointments usually also come with
graduate tuition waivers, teaching assistant positions
or fellowships.
Students have the opportunity to
complete research projects
and,
in the past, have
present
ed
their results
at the Dow Corning Symposium in Science and Engineering
or
at regional
p
hysics conferences
.
What You’ll Study
In this program, students take courses focused on
physics, theoretical mechanics, electricity and thermodynamics
. They also gain
valuable research experience
by completing a project with the guidance of a professor in a field of physics such as solid state or condensed matter physics. This program teaches individuals how to
carry out experiments
, how to draw solid conclusions from data and how to
communicate the results
in laboratory reports—developing their
critical thinking
, problem-solving and scientific skills.
A student planning to major in Physics
is also encouraged to take a year of college calculus as early as possible.
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Your Plan for a Successful College Experience
The Cardinal Plan is a unique outline created by faculty for your program at SVSU and serves as a guide for student success.
Complementary Minors/Majors
Beyond The Books
Get Involved in a Paid Summer Research Program
Faculty members in SVSU’s Physics program offer personal connections for paid summer research opportunities.
Research Experience Opportunities
Students at SVSU have the opportunity to apply for REU (Research Experience for Undergraduates) at leading research schools nationwide. SVSU students have been accepted to conduct summer research with well-established research groups through REU programs.
Get Involved With a Club
Involvement in organizations such as Physics Club and Journal Club promotes and encourage interaction with students not only from physics but, also, with other majors such as mathematics.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Dow Chemical
Auto-Owners Insurance
Graduate Programs
Pennsylvania State University
Rice University
Montana State University
University of Wisconsin
Career Opportunities
Software development
Research and development
Equipment design
Testing laboratories
Semiconductor technology
Information technology
After Graduation
14% job growth
for physicists, astronomers, optical engineers and research scientists. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$119,580 is the median yearly pay
for an experienced physicist in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
Majoring in
physics
at SVSU
is excellent preparation for careers at non-profit research centers, industry,
schools and universities
and
federal agencies
such as
NASA,
the
Department of Energy
and
the
Department of Defense
.
Career possibilities include
areas
such as
education,
research
, applied science and
equipment design
.
A degree in physics can also serve a
s preparation for medical school and law
school.

