URL: https://www.svsu.edu/politicalscience/

Political Science (BA)
SVSU
>
College of Arts and Behavioral Sciences
>
Political Science
About
Interested in political and social issues and policies? Passionate about joining the discussion and making a difference? In the Political Science program at SVSU students gain an understanding of the processes and institutions through which people create a common life. In addition to producing a
nationally ranked
Moot Court Team
and
student-edited journals
, the SVSU Political Science curriculum emphasizes the
study of ideas
, interests and expectations that people bring to making decisions about public matters. Students develop
strong and effective writing skills
while engaging in public theory, public policy and
international relations
as part of an immersive and robust experience. SVSU Political Science graduates work in law, politics, government, journalism, and education, for public and private organizations, and continue on to law school. The Political Science program doesn't just educate, it cultivates a student's
critical thinking
, writing and reading skills.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
Student-edited journals
showcase student thought and
award-winning
writers
.
Through a 3-credit internship course,
p
olitical
s
cience
students gain practical experience in many facets of the political process and political engagement, either locally in Lansing or in Washington, DC
.
Support for travel to Lansing internships is available during the academic year, and students can take advantage of an extensive network of alumni working in the state capitol.
The
SVSU
Moot Court Team
is nationally ranked 19th
in the nation out of over 100 teams. At least one team from the Moot Court program has qualified for the national competition in every year of the program’s existence.
What You’ll Study
The SVSU Political Science curriculum covers four traditional areas of political study:
Political theory, American political institutions, public policy, and international politics
. Issues of equality and justice are emphasized in the SVSU Political Science program, along with the understanding that the complexities of politics make governing anything but a simplistic process. Nearly all upper-division courses include
practice in writing various kinds of documents
, including argumentative essays, research papers, legal briefs, policy analyses and position papers. In addition to writing development, students learn research methods for understanding the political analysis process. Along with
core courses on the American political system and world politics
, students study electives in theory and culture, American political institutions, public policy, and international politics.
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Complementary Minors/Majors
Beyond The Books
Participate in Model United Nations
Students can participate in Model UN, taking the class in the fall semester and traveling in the winter to compete in locations such as Toronto and Chicago.
Registered Student Organizations
RSOs include the College Democrats, College Republicans, Law Club and the Model United Nations Club.
Credited Internships
The Political Science Department offers three kinds of for-credit internships: Legal, political and public administration. Internship sites include local political offices as well as internships with legislators in Lansing and Washington, D.C.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Warner Norcross & Judd LLP
State Department of Education
NBC Universal
Beaumont Medical Center, Southeast Michigan
United Way
U.S. Department of Labor
U.S. Secret Service
Navient
Town of Holly Springs
Graduate Programs
Baylor University
Georgetown University (Law)
Marquette University(Law)
Michigan State University
Santa Clara University School of Law
University of Michigan (Law)
University of Nebraska
University of Oregon (Law)
Wayne State University
William and Mary Law School
Career Opportunities
Bay City Commissioner, 5th Ward
Bay City Commission President, 3rd Ward
Deputy Policy Director, Michigan Environmental Council
President, Bay Area Chamber of Commerce
Bay Regional Coordinator, for the office of US Senator Gary Peters
District Chief of Staff, for the office of US Representative John Moolenaar
After Graduation
5% projected growth
for the employment of political scientists through 2028.
(U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$117,570 is the median yearly pay
for the employment of a political scientist in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s Political Science program,
career doors are open to a multitude of fields
including within the
local, state and federal government.
Fields range from law and
politics
to international affairs,
business
, non-profit,
media
, education and so many more.
Cardinal Successes
The stories below offer insight into how our students have turned their SVSU education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Samantha Jackson
Small Town to Big Lawfirm
Read more…
Gabe Klotz
Collegiate Courtroom Competition Winner
Read more…

