URL: https://www.svsu.edu/pre-occupationaltherapy/

Pre-Occupational Therapy
SVSU
>
College of Health & Human Services
>
Occupational Therapy
Applications for Winter 2025 is OPEN
Saginaw Valley State University is introducing new dual entry points for the Master of Science in Occupational Therapy program starting Winter 2025. Students can now enter the program in either semester, providing flexibility for Freshman Direct Admit, 3+2, and Bachelor’s entry students. This change accommodates varying academic and personal needs. The MSOT program will have rolling admissions, reviewing applications throughout the cycle.
About
Students who pursue a career in Occupational Therapy (OT) have a strong commitment to helping people
of all ages do things they want and need to do in their everyday life.
SVSU's Pre-OT program and MSOT degree
prepare students to work in a variety of settings including hospitals, rehabilitation centers, schools, mental health facilities, outpatient rehabilitation clinics and more. OT students become experts in promoting health, wellness and quality of life from a holistic perspective, where
the individual is the center of the therapy team.
As innovative adaptors, students in the OT program will build their confidence in the health field through frequent use of
SVSU's state-of-the-art Activities of Daily Living Suite
combined with extensive
clinical fieldwork with real clients
. Here, they will take a hands-on approach to collaboratively designing intervention processes to meet the unique needs of each patient.
Whether students thrive in the energy of a hospital or gravitate towards community work—
as Cardinals, they will be fully prepared to soar as OT professionals.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
Students are trained in SVSU's
state-of-the-art Activities of Daily Living Suite.
The Occupational Therapy program is
fully accredited
by the
Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education.
A
limited number of first-semester freshman students will be accepted for guaranteed admittance
into the Master of Science in Occupational Therapy program. Other SVSU undergrads are able to apply for the
3+2 MSOT degree program
.
SVSU students have joined
faculty-led in and out of country study abroad programs
to several sites in
Zambia, Washington State, Detroit
and more.
Students can
pursue coursework
in clinical care, administration, education and research, which include: mental health,
spinal cord injury
, hand therapy,
geriatrics
, traumatic brain injury,
substance abuse
, oncology,
neurology
, post-traumatic stress,
rheumatology
, dysphasia and
general home health care.
What You’ll Study
A variety of academic learning experiences in the Occupational Therapy program ranges from
integrated real-life experience
through the use of SVSU's
state-of-the-art
Activities of Daily Living Suite to SVSU's
accredited curriculum
. Combined, these tools will prepare students with the knowledge, techniques and clinical reasoning skills necessary to complete
clinical internships, fieldwork
and other
leadership opportunities.
Your Plan for a Successful College Experience
The Cardinal Plan is a unique outline created by faculty for your program at SVSU and serves as a guide for student success.
Complementary Minors/Majors
Beyond The Books
State-of-the-Art Facilities
SVSU's Bachand Hall contains state-of-the-art environments like the Daily Living Suite enabling faculty to train students OT methods in a home-like setting.
Active Student Organizations
Students can join the Student Occupational Therapy Association which provides leadership opportunities, community service projects, professional connections and more! Students may be invited to join Pi Theta Epsilon, the national honor society for OT.
Hands-on Learning
Students have opportunities to learn in settings beyond the hospital - through interdisciplinary simulations and fieldwork in emerging practice areas such as homeless shelters, prisons and more.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Skill Builders Physiotherapy & Rehabilitation Centre
Rehab and Mobility Systems, LLC
InTeliCare Health Services
The Lighthouse Neurological Rehabilitation Center
Career Opportunities
Occupational Therapist
Sales/Equipment Specialist
After Graduation
16% projected growth for the employment of an occupational therapist
through 2029, which is much faster than the average for all occupations. The increasing elderly population will drive growth in the demand for occupational therapy services. (Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor:
Occupational Outlook Handbook - Occupational Therapists
)
$84,270 is the median yearly pay
for an occupational therapist in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a degree from SVSU’s Occupational Therapy program, career doors are open to a multitude of fields including
clinical care, administration, education and research
.
SVSU: Connect
Fully integrated into social networks,
SVSU Connect
is a valuable networking space
dedicated to the community of SVSU students, faculty and alumni which cultivates a culture of helping and giving back. In addition to
connecting with each other
, students at all points along their journey can reach out to alumni mentors for guidance and insight into
making the most of their SVSU experience and successfully transitioning into life after graduation.
(989) 342-1033 (Admissions Text/Call Number)
(989) 964-4000 (Main Phone Number)
7400 Bay Road
University Center,
MI
48710
Copyright
©
Saginaw Valley State
University
Privacy Statement
|
Accessibility
|
Feedback
Social Media Icons and Links

