URL: https://www.svsu.edu/pre-law/

Pre-Law
SVSU
>
College of Arts and Behavioral Sciences
>
Pre-Law Advising
About
The Pre-Law program at SVSU is designed to help students who are interested in the law
acquire the knowledge and skills required to succeed in law school.
The pre-law concentration can be paired with any major offered at SVSU, as long as the classes stress rigorous reading, writing and critical thinking skills. During their college career, pre-law students are encouraged to develop their public speaking skills and to get involved with on-campus organizations and in the community to
become well-rounded students ready to face the rigors of law school
and ensure that a career in law is the right path.
From offering courses and lectures that challenge our students, to competitions and community engagement opportunities that empower them to succeed, SVSU offers a robust approach to Pre-Law.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
SVSU’s Moot Court Team is ranked in the top 20 teams in the nation.
For more than 10 years the practicing attorneys and judges who evaluate these competitions have recognized the excellence of our students.
Pre-Law students
attend the annual Law School Forum in Chicago, IL
to visit with representatives from over 160 law schools.
SVSU’s Law Club
brings together students who are considering a career in law to
visit law schools, network with legal professionals and prepare for the LSAT.
What You’ll Study
From SVSU's courses that explore the basics of the legal profession to opportunities to meet working legal professionals, the Pre-Law program sets students on a competitive path towards law school. Moot Court allows students a chance to
experience reading cases and preparing arguments
to present in a simulated U.S. Supreme Court,
helping them develop the skills and credentials necessary to succeed at law school and beyond.
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Complementary Minors/Majors
Beyond The Books
Moot Court
Moot Court addresses the application of a substantive hypothetical case problem each year. Students read and brief actual cases, and prepare oral and written arguments for a yearly competition.
Exploring the Legal Profession (PS230)
This course addresses all topics related to law school: LSAT preparation, careers in lawyering, etc. Law school representatives, lawyers, SVSU alumni and others visit the class to discuss law school and/or lawyering. It's open to all SVSU students.
SVSU Law Club
The club focuses on helping students to prepare for legal careers by having them participate in Moot Court, the Saginaw County Mock Trial Program, meeting informally with legal professionals and sponsoring law-related speakers for the university.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Saginaw Valley State University
Warner, Norcross * Judd
The U.S. Army
Saginaw County Circuit Court
Federal District courts
Michigan Supreme Court
Graduate Programs
Michigan State University - Detroit College of Law
University of Connecticut School of Law
The University of Michigan Law School
Georgetown University Law School
William and Mary Law School
Wayne State University Law School
Career Opportunities
Attorney (Trial, Corporate, Constitutional, Elder Law, many more)
Lobbying
Government Relations
Legal Assistant
Judge's Law Clerk
Non-Profit Environmental Law
After Graduation
8% projected growth
for the employment of lawyers with a Bachelor’s degree through 2026. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$120,910 is the median yearly pay
for a lawyer in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s Pre-Law program,
students are prepared for a multitude of educational paths
including degrees addressing international and criminal law, Federal and State Courts, theory and philosophy of law in higher educational institutions, and so much more!
SVSU: Connect
Fully integrated into social networks,
SVSU Connect
is a valuable networking space
dedicated to the community of SVSU students, faculty and alumni which cultivates a culture of helping and giving back. In addition to
connecting with each other
, students at all points along their journey can reach out to alumni mentors for guidance and insight into
making the most of their SVSU experience and successfully transitioning into life after graduation.

