URL: https://www.svsu.edu/pre-healthprograms/

Pre-Health Professions
SVSU
>
College of Science, Engineering & Technology
>
Pre-Health Professions
About
Are you interested in
Pre-Med
,
Pre-Dental
or
Pre-Vet
, this is perfect degree for you!
The impact you see yourself making on the world comes from helping others—protecting and extending their life and empowering them toward healthy habits that boost their wellbeing. You might picture yourself as a doctor or physician assistant overseeing patients’ care, a physical therapist tending to their recovery after a significant event, or a veterinarian coming to the aid of pets and livestock. If you’re exploring potential occupations and wonder how you’ll get there, medical, dental, veterinary, and other health careers require an advanced degree from a professional school. Your undergraduate years serve as the prerequisite for entry, from the courses you take to the hands-on experiences you have to the research projects you partake in.
From where you’re standing now, Saginaw Valley State University’s Pre-Health Professions Program constructs that bridge with one-on-one advising to steward your journey, encouraging and dedicated instructors invested in your success, and multiple opportunities for immersing yourself in the world of medicine before you commit to medical school.
SVSU’s Pre-Health Professions Program strives to accommodate your aspirations. Considering the spectrum of careers, we don’t utilize a one-size-fits-all method. Instead, we acknowledge your compassion and drive to care for others through expert medical knowledge and guidance and help you realize your goals through a customized approach based on where you see yourself.
The program’s variety of formats suits those seeking a career in allopathic medicine, chiropractic medicine, dentistry, optometry, osteopathic medicine, pharmacy, physical therapy, podiatry, or veterinary medicine or as a physician assistant. To get here, you’ll work with your advisor to craft a dynamic four-year plan based on fulfilling the respective professional school’s requirements, expanding your mind in the classroom through inspiring course materials, and building your skills further through the program’s elite internships, research opportunities, and
partnership with Covenant HealthCare
, where you’ll receive paid work experience in a hospital setting, become fluent in medical terminology, and cultivate professional relationships with practicing physicians as a medical scribe.
Along with the curriculum, advising further promotes your potential and nurtures your future success through academic and non-academic guidance, and you’ll begin during your first semester. In addition to selecting the right courses, you’ll be directed toward relevant and rewarding research and experiential opportunities and prepare for admission to a program of your choice, including MCAT assistance, crafting a compelling application and mock interviews.
Learn more about pre-health advising at SVSU
.
For more information, contact Pre-Health Professions Advisor Heidi Lang at
hblang@svsu.edu
or Pre-Physical Therapy Advisor Merrick Lincoln at
malincol@svsu.edu
.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
SVSU offers a
revolutionary program
to students which allows them to
work alongside physicians at Covenant HealthCare.
SVSU has Early Assurance Program (EAP) agreements with the medical schools at
Central Michigan University, Michigan State University and Wayne State University.
SVSU has a
d
edicated Pre-Health Professions advisor
who provides individualized support and guidance.
What You’ll Study
The Pre-Health Professions Program stands upon a versatile, comprehensive curriculum based upon common requirements for veterinary, chiropractic, dental, pharmacy, podiatry, and medical school admissions: at least one year of general chemistry, organic chemistry, biology, physics, and English.
To cover these essentials and beyond, you’ll start your studies with courses in neuroscience, biochemistry, organic chemistry, biology, zoology, physics, critical writing, and other related math and science areas. At the same time, you’ll work closely with your advisor to select the right major and set of electives that not only help you prepare for admissions and eventually a career in your chosen medical field but ignite your academic passion. Throughout these general requirements, your professors will challenge you in the classroom and connect you with research opportunities to gain hands-on and leadership experience.
From this foundation, you’ll progress onto a more focused area of study geared toward requirements for the professional schools where you intend to apply.
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Complementary Minors/Majors
Beyond The Books
One-on-One Advising
Receive one-on-one mentorship from your Pre-Health Professions Advisor, designed to steer you toward professional success.
Active Student Organizations
Explore your interests on campus via the Health Professions Association, Peer Health Education, and other clubs and activities.
Revolutionary Program
SVSU’s innovative partnership trains undergraduate students to be physician facilitators at Covenant HealthCare in Saginaw and introduces them to a hospital setting before applying to medical school.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Covenant HealthCare
Mayo Clinic
Saginaw Pediatric Dentistry
Allendale Family Vision
Sparrow Health System
Beaumont Health
Plante Moran
Deloitte
Yeo & Yeo
Rehmann
Graduate Programs
Michigan State University's College of Human Medicine
University of Michigan School of Dentistry
Illinois College of Optometry
Wayne State University School of Medicine
Central Michigan University
Career Opportunities
*Upon graduating, students in this program enter health professional schools to prepare them for careers in the healthcare industry.
Medical Scribes
Dental Internships
Pharmacy Internships
Volunteering at Clinics
After Graduation
SVSU’s Pre-Health Professions Program wants you envisioning your success and orchestrating your future from the moment you determine to take this path. Our motivated alumni progress onto Michigan’s three medical schools, aided by our Early Assurance Program (EAP) agreements, and other highly regarded institutions across the country.
Demand for healthcare occupations is predicted to increase 15%
on average from 2019 through 2029, including for chiropractors, dentists, optometrists, pharmacists, physical therapists, physician assistants, physicians and surgeons, podiatrists, and veterinarians. (US Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
Median yearly pay for higher-level medical professionals in the US ranges from $70,340 for chiropractors to $208,000 for physicians and surgeons. (US Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
SVSU’s customized, guided approach gets you where you want to be.
81 percent of 2017 pre-professional graduates
were accepted to their graduate program of choice.
Cardinal Successes
These stories offer insight into how SVSU students have turned their education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Lauren Richardson
Biochemistry Major
Kaitlyn Bailey
Health Sciences Major
Read more…
Emmanuel Avelino
Biochemistry Major
Read More...
SVSU: Connect
Fully integrated into social networks,
SVSU Connect
is a valuable networking space
dedicated to the community of SVSU students, faculty and alumni which cultivates a culture of helping and giving back. In addition to
connecting with each other
, students at all points along their journey can reach out to alumni mentors for guidance and insight into
making the most of their SVSU experience and successfully transitioning into life after graduation.

