URL: https://www.svsu.edu/ptw/

Professional & Technical Writing
SVSU
>
College of Arts and Behavioral Sciences
>
Rhetoric and Professional Writing
About
Writing demands so much more than typing words onto pages and screens.
Writers create books, manuals, magazines—as they always have. But, they also design websites, social media campaigns, instructional videos, museum displays, graphic novels and more. If you see something that brings together text, images, video and sound, then a writer might be behind it.
Professional and technical writers solve complex problems in creative and innovative ways.
Writers learn to make designs more effective and inclusive by studying people as they use information. At SVSU,
you’ll learn to harness communication technologies
and research strategies to drive your expertise in information design. You will develop knowledge essential to just about every industry and working environment you might imagine. Writing today is high tech, multifaceted and challenging. But there is a payoff. PTW grads enjoy excellent career opportunities in and beyond Michigan.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
SVSU has one of only two
usability research labs
in Michigan, with specialized tools and technologies for design testing and rapid prototyping.
Students have access to the
PTW Recording Studio
equipped with professional-grade audio recording equipment for podcasting and voiceover recordings.
Faculty teach everything from usability studies and
inclusive design
to web design,
ethics
, classical rhetoric,
intercultural communication
and multimedia production.
All PTW students complete internships
as part of their degrees.
What You’ll Study
The Professional and Technical Writing program at SVSU balances practice and theory in the study of information design.
Students learn ethical, inclusive strategies for writing, editing, design, usability research, problem analysis and project management. They
implement professional-grade communication technology into a creative process
that integrates language, sound, images, video and interactivity. SVSU’s PTW program offers students community connections and engaging projects as tey pursue their degree.
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Complementary Minors/Majors
Beyond The Books
Association of Professional Technical Writers
APTW is a professional organization that coordinates an annual conference.
Internships & Co-Ops
PTW majors complete one or more professional placements.
Usability Research Team
Students have the opportunity to work on challenging research and development projects with real clients.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
The Dow Chemical Company
Oracle
State of Michigan - Department of Environmental Quality
Ford Motor Company
The Tweddle Group
Graduate Programs
University of Michigan
Michigan Technological University
Eastern Michigan University
Auburn University
Louisville University
Texas Tech University
Career Opportunities
Technical Communicator
User Experience Designer
Project Manager
Information Designer
Media Production Specialist
Editor
Social Media Coordinator
After Graduation
8% projected growth
for the employment of technical writers with a bachelor’s degree through 2028. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$71,850 is the median yearly pay
for technical writers in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a degree in Professional and Technical Writing, graduates are prepared to take on careers in
project management, usability, instructional design and grant writing.
Cardinal Successes
The stories below offer insight into how our students have turned their SVSU education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Kylie Wojciechowski
Read More
Kaitlyn Farley
Read More

