URL: https://www.svsu.edu/psychology/

Psychology (BA)
SVSU
>
College of Arts and Behavioral Sciences
>
Psychology Department
About
Do you ever wonder why
people or animals behave
a certain way? Do you ever
wonder what they’re thinking
? Are you always trying to figure out what makes them tick? As long as we have an
interest in understanding the behavior and mental processes of humans and other animals
, psychology will remain an important scientific field. The Psychology program at SVSU offers
hands-on research
experience
with faculty mentors who encourage the development of professional skills not often found in other programs. In addition, students have opportunities to gain presentation and publication experience as undergraduates, setting them apart from others in their scholastic field. Recent surveys of SVSU Psychology alumni indicated that
94% of graduates found employment,
with 61% of those planning to attend or have completed graduate school or professional training
. With careers for Psychology graduates including scientific research, education, healthcare, industry, criminal justice, data analysis and international relations—
plenty of career opportunities exist for SVSU graduates.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
94% of SVSU Psychology graduates
have found employment.
61% of SVSU Psychology graduates
plan to attend or
have completed graduate school or professional training.
SVSU offers many opportunities for students to
gain hands-on research, presentation or publication experience
as undergraduates.
There are
11
SVSU Psychology faculty actively involved
in a vast range of research topics and they make themselves available to
mentor
students
in their own related research interests
.
What You’ll Study
In the SVSU Psychology program, you can study areas
such as
neurophysiology, sensory processes, perception, cognition and motivation
. Other areas of focus
include
the nature of development, personality, mental disorders, cultural diversity and social influence
. Core and foundational courses include biological foundations of psychology, learning and cognitive psychology, developmental psychology and personality
and
social psychology, as well as two related lab courses.
You can
also
earn college credit while obtaining re
search experience in psychology.
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Complementary Minors/Majors
Beyond The Books
Research Opportunities
Faculty-mentored research opportunities include a variety of means by which students may earn college credit while obtaining hands-on research experience in Psychology, not often available in other programs.
Independent Study Experiences
Students can engage in a wide variety of independent study experiences, such as developing their own empirical project or becoming involved with ongoing empirical research—including directed readings and scholarly work conducting literature reviews.
Field Placement
Students have many opportunities to participate in field placement experiences.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Midland Medical Center
Sound-a-Sleep Lab
Perspectives Therapy Services
Bayfield Assisted Living
Morley
Autism Centers of Michigan
Riverbend Rehab
Centria Heathcare
Florida International University
Local psychology clinics
Graduate Programs
Michigan State University
Eastern Michigan University
Central Michigan University
Fairleigh Dickinson University (NJ)
Oakland University
Wayne State University
Marymount University
University of Toledo
University of Nevada at Las Vegas
University of Pittsburgh
Illinois School of Professional Psychology
Career Opportunities
Law School
Peace Corp
Behavioral Technician
Data Analyst
Social Work
Counseling
Behavioral Specialist
Medical or Veterinary School
Research Assistant
Speech/Language Pathology
Criminal Justice
Sleep Technician
Human Resources Specialist
Psychometrist
After Graduation
14% job growth
for psychologists, clinical psychologists, mental health and abuse counselors, and research psychologists. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$79,010 the yearly median pay
for a psychologist with a master's degree and above in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor's degree in Psychology, students are ready to take on careers as psychiatric technicians, sales representatives and market researchers. Graduates are also
prepared to further their education
in graduate school to become
researchers, clinical psychologists and mental health counselors.
Explore helpful information covering different positions within the mental health field and insights on getting into graduate programs, visit
MI Mental Health Helping Professions
(created by SVSU Associate Professor Travis Pashak, Ph.D.)
Cardinal Successes
The stories below offer insight into how our students have turned their SVSU education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Alissa Rutkowski
Assists in planning congressional meetings & performs policy research
Read more…
News
Read More...

