URL: https://www.svsu.edu/collegeofeducation/programs/secondaryeducation/

College of Education
About
Departments
Offices & Services
Scholarships
Programs
Early Childhood Education
Elementary Education
Secondary Education
Meet a Cardinal
Secondary Education: Course of Study
Secondary Education: Apply to TE
Secondary Education: Advising
MTTC
Secondary Education: Faculty
Job Opportunities
Special Education
Post-Baccalaureate
Advanced Educator Programs
Specializations
Initiatives & Outreach
Gerstacker Fellowship Program
Contact Us
Contact Us
coeconnect@svsu.edu
(989) 964-4057
(989) 964-4057
Dean
James E. Tarr, Ph.D.
Acting Assistant Dean & Professor
Colleen D'Arcy, Ph.D.
Office
College of Education Dean's Office
Gilbertson Hall, North 275
University Center, MI 48710
989-964-7107
coe-dean@svsu.edu
Hours
8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Secondary Education
Future educators who seek to touch the lives of young people in grades 6 through 12 can pursue secondary education. SVSU’s program provides you the opportunity to enroll in TE 100, a supervised classroom field experience, before applying to the College of Education. As a teacher candidate in the secondary education program, (one of only 17 teacher education programs accredited by the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation), you'll devote 300 hours in the field with other candidates, students, teachers and administrators. You will be placed in urban, suburban and rural classrooms working with a range of middle and high school aged learners. With our low student-to-faculty ratio, diverse range of education majors, minors and specialized endorsements as well as opportunities to teach abroad, SVSU offers you the high quality training that prepares you to teach in any state or country. Your journey to a fulfilling teaching career starts when you apply to SVSU.
Meet A Cardinal
Hard work, academic dedication and opportunity earned
Luke Sheppard
a full-time job teaching math at Bridgeport Middle School before graduation. Luke was in the "top 5%" of his class academically. But his field experiences at at Bay City Handy Middle School as well as Bridgeport High School showed administrators that he was up for the challenge of middle schoolers on a day-to-day basis.
Course of Study
In addition to completing Basic Skills and General Education requirements, all SVSU secondary education students must declare an academic major and minor. Even while completing your courses, you will engage in both observational and teaching time in a secondary school classroom. For a comprehensive understanding of all the courses SVSU offers our education students and the academic opportunities available to you, read more.
Majors for Teacher Certification
(Link will take you to the program requirements within the academic department in which the major is aligned.)
Biology Major for Teacher Certification
Chemistry Major for Teacher Certification
Communication & Theater Major for Teacher Certification
English Major for Teacher Certification
French Major for Teacher Certification
History Major for Teacher Certification
Integrated Science Education
Mathematics Major for Teacher Certification
Modern Foreign Languages Teacher Certification
Music Education Major
Physics Major for Teacher Certification
Spanish Major for Teacher Certification
Special Education K-12 Programs
-Autism Spectrum Disorders; K-12
-Cognitive Impairments; K-12
Visual Arts Education
Minors for Teacher Certification
In addition to an approved major, an approved minor must be chosen. Approved minors are:
Biology Minor for Teacher Certification
Chemistry Minor for Teacher Certification
Communication & Theater Minor for Teacher Certification
English Minor for Teacher Certification
English as a Second Language Minor for Teacher Certification
French Minor for Teacher Certification
History Minor for Teacher Certification
Mathematics Minor for Teacher Certification
Physical Education/Teacher Education, Grades 6-12 minor
Physics Minor for Teacher Certification
Spanish Minor for Teacher Certification
Scholarships
Cardinals are honored to support our future educators. That’s why every year SVSU awards education students with college specific scholarships. After you are accepted to the College of Education as a sophomore, you can submit SVSU’s General Scholarship Application to be considered for these awards.
Certification
SVSU prepares each student to enter the field as an educator by advising with regard to your certification with the state of Michigan. For additional details on pursuing the Michigan Test for Teacher Certification in your content areas of study, read more.
Endorsements
Individuals certified in secondary education can enhance their credentials earning endorsements. SVSU offers course preparation for over 20 subject areas. Our coursework and dedicated faculty equip you to successfully pass the Michigan Test for Teacher Certification (MTTC) so you can teach in the subject you are passionate about!
Secondary Post-Baccalaureate Program
You've tried another career, and you feel a calling to inspire students. We guide students to the career path they seek every day. Start your new path by discovering how your undergraduate degree applies towards the requirements needed to obtain your teaching license.
Advanced Educator Professional Learning Programs
Choose from three graduate degree programs:
Master of Arts in Teaching
,
Master of Arts in Technology Learning Systems & Design
and
Master of Education (principalship)
; a variety of
endorsement
programs to enhance your credentials; or move into administration with our
Education Specialist
program.
Job Opportunities
Education graduates at SVSU can go onto serve in local classrooms, care for special needs populations, effect change through policy, teach English abroad and govern education from the local to the national level. When you graduate from SVSU, the role you play in shaping the next generation is up to you. We’ll pave the road to your success.
SERVICE LEARNING
SVSU students address the needs of local and global communities through the integration of meaningful service and traditional instruction that incorporates reflection and critical thinking to enrich the learning experience.
Important Links
Apply to SVSU
Schedule a Visit
Tuition & Fees
Estimate My Cost
Take TE 100
Apply TE
CAEP ACCREDITATION
MDE APPROVED EDUCATOR PREPARATION PROGRAM
HELPFUL LINKS
Forms
News
Contact Us
coeconnect@svsu.edu
(989) 964-4057
(989) 964-4057
Dean
James E. Tarr, Ph.D.
Acting Assistant Dean & Professor
Colleen D'Arcy, Ph.D.
Office
College of Education Dean's Office
Gilbertson Hall, North 275
University Center, MI 48710
989-964-7107
coe-dean@svsu.edu
Hours
8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.

