URL: https://www.svsu.edu/sociology/

Sociology (BA)
SVSU
>
College of Arts and Behavioral Sciences
>
Sociology Department
About
Are you fascinated by the
different ways people live?
Are you interested in
how people organize and behave in groups?
Maybe you’re passionate about social issues, or driven to help people and see yourself as someone who can impact the world in positive ways. Sociologists are the people who
study social life, from momentary interactions between individuals to society-wide structures of organization.
Sociology fosters not only the recognition that we live in a complex and diverse world, but it offers skills in helping to investigate and shape the social world. In the SVSU Sociology program, you will have two options, the
Diversity track and the Applied track
, for developing the competencies of sociologists. Sociology students have opportunities to
conduct guided research and present or publish their work
through venues such as the Michigan Sociological Association Annual Conference. Sociology majors who graduate with a bachelor’s degree from SVSU take with them knowledge and experience that prepares them for a career or further education.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
S
tudents can
work as interns
in non-profits, large corporations or local governments.
S
tudents can
earn a specialization
in applied sociology or social diversity
,
or maintain a general approach in their studies.
Sociology faculty organizes
study abroad opportunities
in destinations such as
India, France, Spain and Africa.
There are
six full-time faculty with expertise
spanning social psychology, religion, health, globalization, gender and race stratification, and more. Their regional expertise includes everything from
Western Africa to the Middle East to East Asia and South Asia
.
What You’ll Study
Sociology majors at SVSU
study complex, challenging, and contemporary issues and forces that impact social structures and interactions, including race, gender, power and politics.
The curriculum boasts a breadth of core sociology knowledge that includes: M
acro, micro, sociology, anthropology, global, domestic, theory and application.
Students hone applied methods for research, interpretation and presentation of information, and
consider how they might translate into cultural awareness, educational initiatives and the development of community
programs
while participating in research projects.
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Your Plan for a Successful College Experience
The Cardinal Plan is a unique outline created by faculty for your program at SVSU and serves as a guide for student success.
Complementary Minors/Majors
Beyond The Books
Study Abroad
Students study abroad in places such as India, France, Spain or West Africa.
Participate in Internship Programs
Students participate in internship programs in both applied sociology and gerontology.
Present Research Projects
Students present research projects at professional and academic conferences such as the Michigan Sociological Association Annual Conference.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Robert Half International
Underground Railroad
Peace Corps
Girl Scouts Heart of Michigan
Planted.Detroit
Payster
Graduate Programs
University of Michigan
Michigan State University
Saginaw Valley State University
Career Opportunities
Municipal and State Government
NGOs
Marketing and Advertising
Organizational Research
After Graduation
9% projected growth
for the employment of sociologists through 2028. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$82,050 is the median yearly pay
for sociologists in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With an undergraduate degree in Sociology, students are prepared to
face challenges and opportunities
in a wide variety of
careers, as well as continuing their education in
graduate programs
across the nation.
SVSU Sociology grad
uates take with them the tools
to make a difference
wherever they go in the world—
from nonprofit organizations to
business to government.
Cardinal Successes
The stories below offer insight into how our students have turned their SVSU education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Alexandria Miller
Sociology Major
Flint water crisis research
Read more…
News
Read More...

