URL: https://www.svsu.edu/spanishlanguage/

Spanish (BA)
SVSU
>
College of Arts and Behavioral Sciences
>
Spanish Language
About
You may know exactly what you want to do and be after you graduate from college. But why limit your outlook to just one area of the world? When you pair your studies with a major (or
minor
) offered by
SVSU’s Department of Modern Foreign Languages
, you unleash a new realm of possibilities for yourself. As a Cardinal at SVSU, we’ll give you skills to be an educator or a foreign correspondent. Or, we’ll show you how to bring your business skills to boardrooms beyond this continent. Whatever your aspirations, SVSU’s Department of Modern Foreign Languages can help you achieve them.
Approved by both the Michigan Department of Education
and adhering to guidelines of the
American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages
, SVSU’s programs promise to equip you with the communication skills required for language proficiency. Your story starts when you apply to SVSU.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
Multiple scholarships available
to students along their journey through the Modern Foreign Languages program, including Gladys Hernandez-Zubulake Endowed
Scholarship for Spanish Majors/Minors
, Ricardo Pastor Spanish Scholarships
.
Students have opportunities through the Health Professions Internship, Spanish students at SVSU can attend the
Universidad Nacional De San Martin in Argentina
or the
University of Guanajuato in Mexico.
Students have opportunities of organizations such as Alpha Mu Game (AMG) Conversation Pods,
Sigma Delta Pi - Omega Kappa
, and much more.
What You’ll Study
SVSU’s Spanish program offers an extensive education in not only the language but the Spanish culture, as a whole. Students discover an entire range of
specialized subjects, such as phonetics, Spanish cinema, modern Spanish literature
and others. Life as a Spanish major includes interactive language labs, immersive study abroad experiences and multicultural events on campus. These Cardinals are not only supported by their family, friends and faculty members
– but the entire campus community!
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Complementary Minors/Majors
Beyond The Books
Fellowships & Internships
Students have ample opportunities to explore a variety of internships and fellowships during their collegiate careers.
Student Organizations & Activities
Organizations help students practice using a foreign language, attend special cultural events, travel and participate in other activities related to diverse communities.
Study Abroad
Students have the opportunity to study abroad both nationally or internationally.
After Graduation
4% projected growth
for the employment of interpreters and translators with a bachelor’s degree. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$56,214 is the average yearly pay
for a foreign language teacher (Spanish) in the U.S. (Glassdoor.com Salaries)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s Modern Foreign Languages program, students may study at home and abroad to prepare for
new adventures
upon graduation. Wherever their flight plans take them, cardinals learn to test their limits and fly!
Cardinal Successes
These stories offer insight into how SVSU students have turned their education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Madison Savard
Read more…
News
Read more…

