URL: https://www.svsu.edu/theatreba/

Theatre (BA)
SVSU
>
College of Arts and Behavioral Sciences
>
Theatre
About
At SVSU, the Theatre program seeks to provide opportunities for individuals to
develop their creative talents
through study and application. As an incentive for those in the program, students are offered an immersive scholarship experience that involves an
auditioning process
and selective criteria, which introduces them to the
familiarities of true theatrical involvement
from behind-the-scenes. Exploration of perspectives of theatre in Western civilization,
cognizance of dramatic literature
and the development of artistic outlets combine to provide SVSU students with a sound understanding of theory and practice. Live theatrical productions provide the individual, the university community and the community at large with
opportunities for artistic and cultural growth.
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
Facilities such as the
Dance/Movement Room
and the
Scene Shop
are made available to all Theatre students.
SVSU offers
theatrical scholarships
which
incorporate an auditioning process
and other selective criteria.
SVSU offers students the opportunity to join
Alpha Psi Omega
, an honor society for students
performing at a higher standard
of work in dramatics.
What You’ll Study
The performance arts curriculum at SVSU includes a strong foundation in theatre-based work with
extensive exposure to theatrical history, acting, stagecraft
and so much more. Students will flourish with the use of the Dance/Movement Room and the Scene Shop which caters to the
real-world needs of dedicated performers
, while also educating students on
behind-the-scenes operations.
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Complementary Minors/Majors
Beyond The Books
Theatre Summer Programs
SVSU employs artists with a unique blend of educational and professional theatrical experience to immerse students in a full day of performance instruction and fun.
Active Student Organizations
Theatre students participate in several student organizations including Work N Progress, Cardinal Night Live, Students Engaging Freshmen, Musical Theatre Enthusiasts and Alpha Psi Omega, a dramatic arts honor society.
Theatrical Shows
Students receive hands-on experience performing in live plays and gaining real-world knowledge of every-day theatrical operations.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
The Children's Theatre Company
The Katharine Hepburn Cultural Arts Center
Actors Theatre of Indiana
Perseverance Theatre
Indiana Repertory Theatre
Asolo Theatre
Florida Studio Theatre
Walt Disney Studios
Spoleto Festival
Carnival Cruise Lines
Disney Cruise Lines
Work Light Productions
Simon Casting
Career Opportunities
School Engagement Coordinator
Theatre Arts Training Education Associate
Voice-Over Talent
Production Assistant/Prop Designer
Company Manager
Professor Actor
Casting Director
Lighting Designer
After Graduation
12% projected growth
for employment of actors with a Bachelor’s degree through 2026. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$63,800 is the median yearly pay
for an actor in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s Theatre program,
students are prepared for a multitude of careers
in both the private and public sectors and may work in various settings, including
production studios, theatres, theme parks, cinema
and more!
Cardinal Successes
These stories offer insight into how SVSU students have turned their education into successful opportunities yielding real-world success.
Jessica Hurley
Read more…
Jared Kaufman
Read more…
SVSU: Connect
Fully integrated into social networks,
SVSU Connect
is a valuable networking space
dedicated to the community of SVSU students, faculty and alumni which cultivates a culture of helping and giving back. In addition to
connecting with each other
, students at all points along their journey can reach out to alumni mentors for guidance and insight into
making the most of their SVSU experience and successfully transitioning into life after graduation.

