URL: https://www.svsu.edu

Visit Campus
Showcasing SVSU's academic excellence, top-ranked housing, and more!
Schedule
What do you want to study?
Search
View All
Undergraduate
Graduate
Schedule Visit
Request Information
Scholarships
Apply Today
Admitted Students
#1
ranked dorms in the nation among public universities AND #1 campus in Michigan!
96%
of graduates employed or in graduate school
20:1
student to faculty ratio
Your story begins here
Join the honors program
Make a difference
Develop your creative talents
"My professors in the Professional and Technical Writing program encouraged and helped me orient each of my projects around astronomy."
Taylor Hart
NASA Science Communication Internship;
Professional and Technical Writing Major;
Essexville, Michigan
News
All News Articles
Advocate for racial and gender equality to give keynote address at MLK Jr. Regional Celebration
The Rev. Nontombi Naomi Tutu, an Episcopal priest and advocate for racial and gender justice, will deliver the keynote address, “Our Shared Humanity: Creating Understanding Through the Principles of MLK,” at the 16th annual Martin Luther King Jr. Regional Celebration.
SVSU Board approves housing and dining rates
The Saginaw Valley State University Board of Control passed housing and dining rates for the 2025-26 fiscal year during the Board’s regular meeting Friday, Dec. 13.  The new auxiliary fund budget includes a simplification and standardization of rates for students living on campus next year.
SVSU students to celebrate beginning of new chapters
As the year draws to a close, over 530 Saginaw Valley State University students will prepare to put their degrees to use and celebrate the beginning of the next chapter of their lives when they participate in commencement exercises on Saturday, Dec. 14.
Events
JAN
28
Chia-Ying Chan Piano Recital
JAN
31
Spring Employment Fair 2025
FEB
10
Music Majors in Recital
FEB
22
Rhea Miller Concert Series
FEB
26
SVSU Choirs in Concert
MAR
15
Intercultural Night Performance
All Campus Events
Visit the Box Office
Athletic Events

