URL: https://www.svsu.edu/visualartseducation/

Visual Arts Education (BA)
SVSU
>
College of Arts and Behavioral Sciences
>
Art Department
About
Students in the Visual Arts Education program are trained to
help future generations explore the creative world
made possible through artistic perception. With access to courses ranging from photography to sculpture to painting and more,
students are encouraged to find their artistic niche
and pursue it as a concentration. Expert faculty, from both the art and education departments, connect with students and guide them on their collegiate journey through the basics of design, drawing, and curriculum and instructional courses. Through interactive course work, students are
introduced to the fundamentals of different mediums and art history
, and eventually, apply their skills to teaching. SVSU's diverse range of opportunities from fieldwork to lectures and exhibits allows
majors within the program to not just grow but flourish!
Apply
Visit
Tuition/Cost
Department
Cardinal Points
Acclaimed artists showcase their work via lectures and exhibitions
, offering
students the chance to ask questions with and learn from those in their perspective fields.
Students pursuing a degree in Visual Arts Education can apply for a plethora of
art and education scholarships
through SVSU.
Students have the opportunity to
exhibit their work
through the journal,
Still Life
, the
University Art Department Gallery
and
International Sculpture Day
.
What You’ll Study
SVSU's Visual Arts Education program offers a
strong foundation in design, drawing and history
. Students majoring in the program have the opportunity to explore various methods of teaching and curriculum design, while also pursuing their interests in painting, sculpture, ceramics and photography.
Life as a Visual Arts Major includes an adventurous curriculum, a concentration on their preferred medium of choice and engaging field study courses!
Highlighted Courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Key Electives
Click here to see a listing of programs
Programs
Majors
Other
Complementary Minors/Majors
Beyond The Books
Student Organizations
Students are heavily involved in clubs such as the Art and Design Creative League, Cardinal Photography Students Association and the Comic Strippers.
Mural Development Project
Students in SVSU's mural painting class engage with area youth and help them develop murals in the community.
Internships
Visual Arts Education majors complete student teaching internships to gain fieldwork experience.
Our Students After Graduation...
Employers
Career Opportunities
High School Teacher
Middle School Teacher
Elementary School Teacher
After Graduation
4% projected growth
for employment of high school teachers with a bachelor’s degree through 2028. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
$60,320 is the median yearly pay
for a high school teacher in the U.S. (U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics)
With a bachelor’s degree from SVSU’s Visual Arts Education program,
students are prepared to teach
art as an elementary, middle or high school teacher.

